I am getting the message incorrect User ID. What should I do ? Visit our website to get your User ID online or Call our Customer Care, authenticate on IVR by entering the 16-digit number of your Debit Card and the 4-digit ATM PIN to get your user ID instantly.
I have entered the User ID and mobile number correctly, but still I am not able to generate the unique number.What should I do  ? Kindly check the below points:The mobile number you are entering should be same as updated in Bank's records. Please call our Customer Care number for assistanceYour password has not been reissued /generated online within last three days
I have entered the mobile number incorrectly 3 times. The system states that this facility has been disabled, what should I do ? To maintain the security of the account, the facility of "Online password generation" has been disabled for your user ID. Please call the Customer Care number to place a request asking to enable the online password generation process.
I have entered the unique number incorrectly 3 times. The system states this facility has been disabled, what should I do ? For the security of the account, the facility of "Online password generation" has been disabled for your User ID. Please call the Customer Care number to place a request asking to enable the online password generation process.
What is a '6-digit unique number' ?  How is it different from a password ? The 6-digit unique number is sent to your registered mobile number for Resident Saving account holders and e-mail ID for NRI account holders.You need to validate this number on the validate option available to generate your new password.
I am unable to use the 'Online password generation' facility for my Credit Card, Loan and Demat accounts.This facility is currently available only for Savings account holders of ICICI Bank. Please call our Customer Care to place request for password of your Credit Card, Demat and loan accounts.
Is it necessary to get my mobile number/e-mail registered to generate a login/ transaction passwords online ? Yes, it is mandatory to have a registered mobile number updated for resident Saving Account holders and an e-mail ID for NRI account holders Resident Savings Account holders can add/update their mobile number by visiting their nearest ICICI Bank Branch or ATM# and NRI customers can add/update registered e-mail ID by contacting Customer Care or by visiting their nearest ICICI Bank Branch or ATM# in India.
What is the validity of the unique number received by me ? The validity of your unique number is only 24 hours. Please validate your unique number within 24 hours and generate your passwords. If you could not validate your unique number, please regenerate it again.
I am getting the message `Password reset recently'.It is possible that you have already placed a request for the generation of password through phone banking/branch which has been processed and sent to you. Please call Customer Care for the dispatch details.