What is an Automated Teller Machine (ATM)  ?  Automated Teller Machine is a computerised machine that provides the customers of banks the facility of accessing their accounts for dispensing cash and to carry out other financial transactions without the need of actually visiting a bank branch.
What is an ATM  ?  Automated Teller Machine is a computerised machine that provides the customers of banks the facility of accessing their accounts for dispensing cash and to carry out other financial transactions without the need of actually visiting a bank branch.
What type of cards can be used at an ATM  ?  The ATM cards/debit cards, credit cards and prepaid cards(that permit cashwhdrawal) can be used at ATMs for various transactions.
What are the different cards that I can use at an ATM   ?   The ATM cards/debit cards, credit cards and prepaid cards(that permit cashwhdrawal) can be used at ATMs for various transactions.
Where can I find an ATM ? Please visit our website to locate the nearest ATM.
What are the services/facilities available at ATMs  ?  In addition to cash dispensing ATMs may have many services/facilities such as:Account information Cash Deposit Regular bills payment Purchase of Re-load Vouchers for Mobiles Mini/Short Statement Loan account enquiry etc.The services offered may vary from bank to bank, or may depend on the capacity of the machine to provide such services.
What are the things that I can do at an ATM  ?  In addition to cash dispensing ATMs may have many services/facilities such as:Account information Cash Deposit Regular bills payment Purchase of Re-load Vouchers for Mobiles Mini/Short Statement Loan account enquiry etc.The services offered may vary from bank to bank, or may depend on the capacity of the machine to provide such services.
How can one transact at an ATM  ?  For transacting at an ATM, the customer insert (swipe) their card in the ATM and enter their Personal Identification Number (PIN).
How can I withdraw money at an ATM  ?  For transacting at an ATM, the customer should insert (swipe) their card in the ATM and enter their Personal Identification Number (PIN).
Can the ATM and Debit cards be used at any ATM in the country  ?  Yes. The cards issued by banks in India should be enabled for use at any bank ATM within India.
Can I use my ATM card at another banks ATM   ?  Yes. The cards issued by banks in India should be enabled for use at any bank ATM within India.
What is a Personal Identification Number (PIN)  ?  PIN is the numeric password for use at the ATM. The PIN is separately mailed/handed over to the customer by the bank while issuing the card. This PIN has to be reset to a new PIN by the customer. Most banks force the customers to change the PIN on the first use.The PIN number should not be written the card, card holder etc as in such cases the card can be misused if card is lost/stolen.
What should I do if I forget my ATM PIN number  ?   The customer may contact the card issuing bank branch and apply for retrieval/issuance of a new card. This procedure is applicable even if the card is sucked in at another bank's ATM.
What should I do if my card is sucked in by the ATM  ?   The customer may contact the card issuing bank branch and apply for retrieval/issuance of a new card. This procedure is applicable even if the card is sucked in at another bank's ATM.
What should be done if the ATM card is lost  ?  The customer may contact the card issuing bank immediately on noticing the loss so as to enable the bank to block such cards.
What should be done if the ATM card is stolen  ?  The customer may contact the card issuing bank immediately on noticing the loss so as to enable the bank to block such cards.
What to do if I can't find my ATM card ? The customer may contact the card issuing bank immediately on noticing the loss so as to enable the bank to block such cards.
Is there any minimum and maximum cash withdrawal limit per day at an ATM ? Yes, banks set limit for cash withdrawal by customers. The cash withdrawal limit for use at the ATM of the issuing bank is set by the bank during the issuance of the card. This limit is displayed at the respective ATM locations.For cash withdrawals at other bank ATMs, banks have decided to maintain a limit of Rs 10,000/- per transaction. This information is displayed at the ATM location.
What is the daily limit on cash withdrawal at an ATM ? The cash withdrawal limit for use at the ATM of the issuing bank is set by the bank during the issuance of the card. This limit is displayed at the respective ATM locations.For cash withdrawals at other bank ATMs, banks have decided to maintain a limit of Rs 10,000/- per transaction. This information is displayed at the ATM location
What is the maximum cash I can withdraw at an ATM in a single day ? Yes, banks set limit for cash withdrawal by customers. The cash withdrawal limit for use at the ATM of the issuing bank is set by the bank during the issuance of the card. This limit is displayed at the respective ATM locations.For cash withdrawals at other bank ATMs, banks have decided to maintain a limit of Rs 10,000/- per transaction. This information is displayed at the ATM location
Do banks levy any service charge for use of other bank ATMs ? As per the RBI circular dated July 17, 2009 and May 27, 2011, five free transactions are permitted per month (inclusive of financial and/or non-financial) at other bank ATMs for Savings Bank Account holders.
Is there extra fees for using another bank's ATM  ?  As per the RBI circular dated July 17, 2009 and May 27, 2011, five free transactions are permitted per month (inclusive of financial and/or non-financial) at other bank ATMs for Savings Bank Account holders.
What should be done in case during the cash withdrawal process, cash is not disbursed but the account gets debited for the amount ? The customer may lodge a complaint with the card issuing bank. This process is applicable even if the transaction was carried out at another banks ATM.
I just used an ATM for cash withdrawal. My account got debited but I did not receive any cash. What to do  ? The customer may lodge a complaint with the card issuing bank. This process is applicable even if the transaction was carried out at another banks ATM.
How many days maximum would the bank require to re-credit the account for such wrong debits ? As per the RBI instruction, the issuing bank may re-credit such wrongly debited amounts within a maximum period of 7 working days from the receipt of the customer compliant.
My account got wrongly debited but I did not receive any cash. By when would my account be re-credited  ?  As per the RBI instruction, the issuing bank may re-credit such wrongly debited amounts within a maximum period of 7 working days from the receipt of the customer compliant.For delays beyond 7 working days,banks shall pay customers a sum of Rs. 100 per day for delays beyond 7 working days (if the complaint is lodged with the issuing bank within 30 days). This compensation shall be credited to the customer's account without any claim being made by the customer.
In case the compensation for delayed re-credit is not credited as mandated, what recourse does the customer have ? For all such complaints customer may lodge a complaint with the local Banking Ombudsman if the bank does not respond.
Will I be charged extra for doing payment through ATM ? No.
Can i make the payment for policies not owned by me ? No, only for self policy.
How will i get my premium paid receipt ? The bank will process the receipt.
If i have any query on which number shall i contact ? Customer have to contact the respective bank branch.
How will the cheque book reach me ? Cheque book will be processed and will be delivered to your address registered with bank.
Can i do mobile topup to my post paid mobile ? No, option is only for prepaid mobile .
Can i do mobile topup to any mobile ? Yes, if the service provider is registered with Euronet.
Can i do mobile topup for any amount ? Mobile topup can be done for any amount as restricted by the service provider.
Will i be charged any additional charges for using the mobile topup service ? No.
If i have two or more linked account on my card can i withdraw through this option ? Yes, you can withdraw by default your primary account will get debit.
Will i get print slip for using ultra fast cash ? Yes.
If i have to choose linked account or different amount what should i do ? Instead of Ultra fast cash you can select cash withdrawal option.
Can i transfer fund to any account ? Yes, you can transfer fund to any domestic account within the bank .
Do i need to register through internet for transferring fund to another domestic account ? No, you need to punch in 12 digit account number.
What if i enter wrong account number while transfering fund to another domestic account ? You need to ensure accuracy of the account number and amount, the bank will not be responsible for wrong credit
When will the account be credited for transfers within the bank  ? Instantly.
How much amount can i transfer to another domestic amount ? In a day you can transfer amount upto Rs. 1lac.
Which customers are eligible for requesting for a Fixed Deposit through an  ATM  ? The facility is available to all resident Indian individuals only, who are customers of any of the  Resident Savings or Salary Account having a debit card and PIN. Current accounts linked to a debit card shall not be applicable for the facility.
Who can apply for a Fixed Deposit account  ?  The facility is available to all resident Indian individuals only, who are customers of any of the  Resident Savings or Salary Account having a debit card and PIN. Current accounts linked to a debit card shall not be applicable for the facility.
What is the minimum and maximum Fixed Deposit amount that can be requested from the ATM ?  Minimum fixed deposit Amount : Rs 10,000/- Maximum fixed deposit Amount : Rs 49,999/-
What type of Fixed Deposit and maturity instruction is available for Fixed Deposits requested from the ATM channel ? Fixed Deposits that shall be created basis request from ATMs shall be :Cumulative Fixed Deposit only Shall be placed under auto renewal mode
Which Savings Account will be debited in case of multiple savings accounts being linked to a debit card  ? The primary savings account shall be debited with the amount of Fixed Deposit that the customer wants to create.
What will be the mode of operation and customer id of such Fixed Deposit being made from requests from ATM ? The Fixed Deposit so made, shall be under the same customer id and same mode of operation as in the  Savings Bank Account from where the debit for the Fixed Deposit shall be done.
Will a Memorandum of Deposit be sent on opening of the Fixed Deposit ? Yes, on successful opening of the Fixed Deposit, a Memorandum of Deposit(MOD) shall be sent to the registered communication address as per bank records. For a Fixed DepositR, customer shall have to visit the nearest  branch
Within how many days of giving Fixed Deposit creation request from an ATM , will the Fixed Deposit be made ? Fixed Deposit creation request will be processed with in 3 working days from the date of request.
Will premature withdrawal be allowed for Fixed Deposits being created from request from ATM ? Yes, premature withdrawal shall be allowed as per existing terms and conditions, subject to premature penalty as applicable.
What are the reasons because of which request for Fixed Deposit given from  ATM can be rejected  ? Request for Fixed Deposit creation can be rejected because of :Insufficient funds in the savings account Dormant savings account Savings Account closed
How will nomination details of the customer be captured ? For Fixed Deposits created from request from the  ATM, Nomination details of the savings account shall be replicated for the Fixed Deposit too. For any further change required in nomination, customer may visit the branch to effect the change.
What are exclusions for the facility for requesting Fixed Deposits from  ATM ? Following category of Fixed Deposits, will not come under the preview of the facility of booking Fixed Deposits from ATMs:Fixed Deposits apart from 390, 590, 990 Days tenureTraditional Fixed DepositsAll other Fixed Deposit tenures apart from 390, 590, 990 Days 80C Fixed Deposit (tax saving Fixed Deposit's)Recurring Deposits (RD)All Corporate / Partnership / Sole Proprietorship Fixed Deposits / NRI Fixed DepositsFixed Deposits with amount Rs 50,000/- or moreFixed Deposits being created from Savings Account with mode of Operation as "jointly" Linked Fixed Deposits or Quantum Optima or Money Multiplier Fixed Deposits
Who can use this function ?  Customer who have registered the payee through Internet can use this function
When will the fund get credited in beneficiary account ? With in the Bank fund will get transfer instantly Other Bank fund will get credited as per the NEFT clearing cycle
Will there be any additional charges for using this service through ATM ? No, there will be no additional charges.
How do I update my mobile number from the ATM ? Customer to authenticate via Debit card and PIN and select.More Options >> Register Your Mobile >> Enter 10-digit mobile number >>Re-enter the 10-digit mobile number>>Confirm>>Customer is informed that the request is accepted and will be processed in 2 working days.
Is this facility to update mobile number from ATM available for all customers ? No, this facility is available for only resident Savings account holders
Can customer use this facility to update mobile number from ATM to change mobile number also ? Yes, the customer can do first time registration as well as change / update his mobile number
Will the customer be intimated once the mobile number updation is done ? Yes, the customer will be intimated by SMS on the old and new mobile number once the same is updated in Icore
Can the customer update his land line number from the ATM ? No. Customer can only update his mobile number
Can a joint account holder update his mobile number ? Yes, account where the mode of operation is single and E or S (either or survivor) can avail the facility.
Will the customer be intimated once the updation is done ? Yes, the customer will be intimated by SMS on the old and new mobile number once the same is updated in Icore
How do I make my Credit Card payments on ATM ? You can make your payments at any atms on the path below:More Options>>Credit Card/Loans Payments>>Select product as Credit Card>>Enter 15-16 Credit Card no>>Enter the amount you wish to pay>>Confirm>>Collect confirmatory receipt.
How do I make my Loan re- payments on ATM ? You can pay towards your EMIs at any atms on the path below:More Options>>Credit Card/Loans Payments>>Select product as Home Loans or Other Loans>> Enter 11 digit numeric part of the Lan no>>Enter the amount you wish to pay>>Confirm>>Collect confirmatory receipt.
Can all customers make a payment towards their Credit Card through an ATM ? No, all customers having only the bank's debit/ATM cards can make a payment towards their Credit cards.
Can all customers make a payment towards their Loans through an ATM ? Only customers having EMI outstanding can pay through ATM.
Can I make a prepayment/foreclosure through ATM ? No.this feature is not available on ATM. Pls visit nearest  branch or contact customer care.
Will instant credit happen in my Credit card account on making payments through the ATM ? Yes, after successful transaction instant payment would reflect in your Credit card bill.
Will instant credit happen in my Loan account on making payments through the ATM ? No, after successful transaction Loan payments would reflect in your statement in a maximum of 3 working days.