What is a Debit Card  ?   A Debit Card makes your payments much more convenient and secure through an electronic payment facility directly from your Savings or Current Account withthe bank.
What is the difference between an ATM Card and a debit card  ?   An ATM card is used primarily for cash withdrawal at ATMs. However, a debit card can not only be used for cash withdrawals at ATMs, but also for purchases online or at retail outlets by directly debiting your Bank account.
How can I apply for a Debit Card  ?   a Debit Card comes as a part of the bank Account Kit which is given to you at the time of account opening. In case, you were not given a Debit Card with your new account kit, you can call the bank customer care and request for a new debit card.
How can I receive a new Debit Card  ?   a Debit Card comes as a part of the bank Account Kit which is given to you at the time of account opening. In case, you were not given a Debit Card with your new account kit, you can call the bank customer care and request for a new debit card.
I have received a Debit Card with my Bank Account Kit. Is it ready to use  ?  Your Debit Card is in active state for usage at ATMs. You can start using your debit card at any Visa/MasterCard enabled ATMs using the PIN given to you in the Bank account kit. For using the cards at online or retail merchants, you will have to activate your debit card by doing an ATM transaction.
How do I use my new Debit Card that I just received with my Bank Account Kit ? Your Debit Card is in active state for usage at ATMs. You can start using your debit card at any Visa/MasterCard enabled ATMs using the PIN given to you in the Bank account kit. For using the cards at online or retail merchants, you will have to activate your debit card by doing an ATM transaction
I had ordered a new debit card through customer care/Branch, there was no PIN that was sent with the card.How do I start using my debit card ? For debit cards ordered through phone banking orbank branches, PIN is sent separately to your registered address within 7 days from the receipt of your debit card. In case you want to start using your card immediately, you can also generate the PIN through our secure IVR channel by calling bank customer care.
What all information is written on my Debit Card ? The following information is available on the front of your Debit Card:16 digit debit card number,Debit card valid from date,Debit card expiry date, Debit cardholder name (Only for personalised cards).The following information is available at the back side of your Debit Card:3 digit CVV number, Grid values for net banking transactions Signature panel
What are the different numbers written on my Debit Card ? The following information is available on the front of your Debit Card:16 digit debit card number,Debit card valid from date,Debit card expiry date, Debit cardholder name (Only for personalised cards).The following information is available at the back side of your Debit Card:3 digit CVV number, Grid values for net banking transactions Signature panel
What is a CVV number ?  The CVV number is a code entered on the back of the card. There are 7 digits entered near the signature panel at the back, out of which the last 3 digits are the CVV number. This value is required as a form of authentication for online and IVR transactions.
How do I find my CVV number ? The CVV number is a code entered on the back of the card. There are 7 digits entered near the signature panel at the back, out of which the last 3 digits are the CVV number. This value is required as a form of authentication for online and IVR transactions.
How do I activate the debit card for usage online or at retail outlets ?  All you need to do for activating your debit card for usage online or at retail outlets, is to do at least 1 cash withdrawal or balance enquiry transaction at a ATM. It is also suggested that you change your ATM PIN during your first transaction at a ATM.
What are the different ways of changing the debit card PIN ?  The debit card PIN can be changed during your first transaction at an ATM. You can also change it at customer care through our secure IVR PIN change option. You can also request for the PIN to be delivered in a physical format at your registered communication address.
How do I change my ATM Pin  ?  You can change your ATM Pin during your first transaction at a ATM. Alternatively, you can also change your debit card PIN at customer care through our secure IVR PIN change option. You can also request for the PIN to be delivered in a physical format at your registered communication address.
If I request for a duplicate PIN, when will it be delivered to my address ? the duplicate PIN will be delivered to your address within 7 working days.
How to use a debit card for retail transactions ?  Step1: The merchant swipes or dips your card at a Point of Sale (POS) terminal Step2: He enters the transaction amount on the POS terminal Step3: The POS machine will prompt for the debit card ATM PIN to be entered by you Please do not disclose your debit card ATM PIN to the merchant. Step4: Once you enter the correct PIN and sign the chargeslip, the transaction is confirmed and completed, and transaction amount will get deducted from your Bank account Step5: Ensure that the debit card is returned to you
Is there any fees for using my Debit Card for retail or online transactions ?  No. There is zero fee for using your Debit Card at retail outlets or online websites. However, in certain merchant categories like Railways and Fuel, a fee may be levied by the merchant on every purchase.
What are the Debit Card transaction fees if I swipe my card at Fuel pumps or booking railway tickets ?  The following are the transaction charges applicable when you use the Debit Card at:Petrol pumps: Rs. 10 or 2.5% of the transaction amount (whichever is greater).IRCTC: Rs. 10 flat fees per transaction if transaction is done using ATM PIN. For all other IRCTC transactions, upto 1.8% Payment Gateway (PG) charges will apply.Please note that there are no transaction fees applicable at other merchant locations. These charges attract a Service Tax and an Educational Cess as applicable, in terms with the current Finance Bill.
Will I get any intimation for my debit card transactions ? Yes. You will receive SMS and Email alerts for all debit card transactions to your registered mobile number and email ID registered with the Bank. If you have not registered any of these 2, you can call customer care and update it.
Can my Debit Card be used for transactions outside India ? As per RBI mandate, all debit cards issued after December 01, 2013 are blocked for International usage. However, you can activate your debit card for International transactions at ATMs, retail outlets or International websites by calling our Customer Care or visiting the nearest branch. Please note, all chip debit cards issued to customers are active for transactions outside India.
How can I find out when my debit card was issued to me ? Every Debit Card has a Valid From date mentioned on the front of the card in MM/YY format. This date is the card issue date.
My Debit Card Valid from date is before December, 2013 (12/13). Is my Debit Card active for transactions outside India ? Yes. All debit cards issued before December 01, 2013 are active for transactions at ATMs, online websites or retail outlets throughout the world. However, daily usage limits for transactions in India are transactions abroad.
What are the daily usage limits for my debit card for usage at ATMs and merchant outlets ? There is a daily limit on your debit card for ATM cash withdrawal as well as transactions at retail outlets and online merchants in India and abroad. The details of daily limits as per each card type can be viewed at our website.
Is it possible to change the daily usage limits on my debit card ? Yes, these limits can be increased or decreased using “Set your own limit” feature on your debit card. Please call customer care to change the limits.
What are the charges for usage of Debit Cards for international transactions ? Debit Card usage for withdrawals at International ATMs will attract a charge of Rs. 25 (Plus taxes) per balance enquiry and Rs. 125 (plus taxes) per cash withdrawal transaction. There is a currency conversion markup of 3.5% on foreign currency transactions carried out on Debit Cards. The exchange rate used will be the VISA/MasterCard wholesale exchange rate prevailing at the time of the transaction. The 3.5% markup will also attract necessary service tax.
What is the procedure to replace a damaged Debit Card ? We request you to contact our customer care, where you can Hotlist your existing card immediately and simultaneously request for re-issuance of a new card.
I have broken my debit card. How do I get it replaced ? We request you to contact our customer care, where you can Hotlist your existing card immediately and simultaneously request for re-issuance of a new card.
What is the procedure to follow if my Debit Card PIN is blocked ? If your PIN is blocked, you can unblock the card by calling our customer care. In case your card is blocked due to entering the incorrect PIN at an ATM or merchant outlet, the card will automatically get unblocked after 24 hours.
Can I use my Debit Card to pay online ? Currently your Debit Card can be used to make purchases from online merchants who have the Verified by Visa/ MasterCard SecureCode certification displayed on their web site.
What should I do if my Debit Card is not working ? If your card is not working, we request you to contact our customer care or visit nearest branch. The bank officer will assist you to identify the problem with the debit card.
What is a Chip and PIN debit card ? A chip debit card has a small microchip embedded in the card. This chip is encrypted to make the transactions on the card more secure. The Chip and PIN debit card adds more security on your card, in line with best global practice of security of transactions.
Will I be asked for my ATM PIN at every POS terminal, be it domestic or International ? For all transactions in India you will be asked for a PIN. However, outside India, only if the POS terminal is enabled for PIN authentication, you will be asked for PIN. You will need to enter your debit card ATM PIN and complete the transaction.
What if I have forgotten my PIN or enter an incorrect PIN ? You will be given 3 attempts to enter the correct PIN, post which your transaction will get declined. If you have forgotten your PIN, please call the customer care and request for a duplicate ATM PIN for your card. You can generate the duplicate PIN using secure IVR channel at customer care instantly.
I did 3 unsuccessful PIN attempts at POS terminal and transaction was declined. I remember my PIN now, can I try using the debit card at the POS or an ATM machine or is it necessary for me to get a duplicate PIN.If you remember the PIN you can use your debit card at any POS or ATM machine after 24 hours. However, you can also callbank customer care to activate your card again to start using it immediately.
Is my online transaction secure when I am not being asked for a PIN ? For online transactions you will go through the Verfied by VISA/Mastercard Secure code channel. This itself is an additional authentication for your transactions.
What is Verified by Visa or Mastercard Secure Code ?  Verified by Visa and Mastercard Secure Code is a service that allows you to protect your online purchases through a personal secure 6 digit numeric 3D secure password.
Will I be asked for my 3D Secure password at all online merchants ? No. It will be asked only for those merchants that have enrolled for this service. As per RBI mandate, all merchants located in India have to be mandatorily registered for this service for online transactions.
What happens if I forget my 3D Secure password ? You can re-register and create a new password by logging here. If you forget your 3D Secure password when making an online purchase, you can quickly reset your password by clicking on the “Forgot your 3D Secure Password” link in the payment authentication screen during the purchase.
What should I do if I have lost my Debit Card ? In case of loss of debit card, you can call our customer care to immediately block it. You can also raise a request for a new debit card which can be sent to your registered communication address. You can also visit nearest branch, and request for an Insta debit card which can be issued to you immediately at the branch.
I came across a transaction on my account using a debit card which was not attempted by me ?  How do I report this transaction ? Any fraudulent or disputed transaction using the debit card on your account can be reported at our customer care. We will scrutinize this transaction and update you on the same.
My account was debited, event though I did not perform the transaction using a debit card . How do I report this transaction ? Any fraudulent or disputed transaction using the debit card on your account can be reported at our customer care. We will scrutinize this transaction and update you on the same.
My Debit Card is going to expire soon, should I apply for a new one ? We will dispatch a new debit card to you before the expiry of your current one. Please do not raise a fresh request for a debit card. If you do not receive a new debit card within 1 week of expiration of your current one, please call our customer care to register a complaint.
My current debit card is damaged ?  How do I replace it ?  You can visit the nearest branch or call customer care and request for a new debit card. The new debit card will be sent to you within 15 days from the date of request.