How do I issue an eftCheque ? To issue an eftCheque, please follow the below steps:1. Select Account number from which eftCheque is to be issued (Debit Account Number).2. From Main Menu, Select “Write eftCheque” option.3. A cheque book page will open with details like Name, Account Number and Balance.4. Enter mandatory details like Beneficiary Mobile Number (Manually or from contacts), Beneficiary Name and Amount. Click Submit.5. Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number.6. A message will be displayed upon successful issuance and you will receive an SMS with eftCheque code and 4-digit passcode. Passcode is to be shared with the Beneficiary to receive the funds.
What is the amount limit for issuing a cheque through this app ? There is a limit of maximum Rs. 1,00,000 per day for which an eftCheques can be issued for.
How is the Transaction processed ? When you initiate the transaction and authorise the same with an OTP, a "Cheque code" will be generated. Post the creation of cheque code, 4 digit pass code will be generated which will be sent to your registered mobile number.
How do I deposit a Cheque ? To deposit a Cheque, please follow the below steps:1. Select Account in which Cheque amount is to be deposited2. Select Deposit Cheque from the Main Menu3. Read the MICR band on the bottom of the cheque with MICR reader, Confirm the same4. In the following screen, Capture the Front and Back of the Cheque respectively, verify the details populated and enter amount and name of the issuer (Drawer) of the cheque.5. Submit the cheque.6. Deposit the physical cheque at your nearest ICICI Bank branch, within the specified time limit.
I am not getting an OTP on my mobile number. Why ? Your mobile number may not be updated with us. Request you to visit any of our branch to register your updated mobile number. You will be able to receive OTP. If you are not getting OTP, even after updation of your mobile number, please contact our 24 hour Customer Care for assistance.