What sum insured should I opt for while travelling to Schengen countries ?  You should choose plan with minimum sum insured of USD 50,000.
Are there any Sublimits applicable for schengen countries ?  No there are no sublimits applicable for schengen countries .
Why do I need Travel Insurance ? One usually travels abroad for two reasons- a pleasure trip or a business trip. You do not want anything to ruin your hard earned holiday or your crucial business meeting. But there is a possibility of some unexpected occurrence no matter how perfect the planning is. Unfortunate events such as baggage loss, passport loss, a medical emergency or an accident can affect you. Having International Travel Insurance protects you from all such perils. It ensures that in the unknown foreign land you are not left stranded in any kind of an emergency.
What is a Travel Insurance ?  One usually travels abroad for two reasons- a pleasure trip or a business trip. You do not want anything to ruin your hard earned holiday or your crucial business meeting. But there is a possibility of some unexpected occurrence no matter how perfect the planning is. Unfortunate events such as baggage loss, passport loss, a medical emergency or an accident can affect you. Having International Travel Insurance protects you from all such perils. It ensures that in the unknown foreign land you are not left stranded in any kind of an emergency.
What is a ASP ?  ASP stands for Assistance Service Provider. The most essential service they provide is cashless medical services. They also provide the necessary information to deal with any problem regarding claims.
In case medical treatment is required, is there any need for any pre-approval before hospitalization ? You would need to contact our ASP and they would arrange for the cashless claims for the medical treatment.
If pre-approval is required then what are the procedures ?  For hospitalization, we have a toll free no., which you have to call up for the cashless claim, and for a physician visit, you will be getting reimbursement on the bills. 
How long does it take to receive the policy papers once I purchase the travel insurance policy online ? The hard copy of the policy will reach you within 7 working days. However, you can buy online within 15 minutes and take print out of the policy instantly. This works as a legally valid document, even at the time of claims, as all you need to have is your passport details and policy number.
What are the charges for travel insurance policy cancellation ? Rs. 300 is the fee for policy cancellation.
Will I get refund if I cancel my travel insurance policy ? The policy bought online will be cancelled and the amount refunded on a pro-rata basis provided no claims have been made subject to minimum 30 days left for the policy to expire.
Where can I find out more about the travel insurance policy covers ? Please refer to the policy wordings for complete coverage details.
Can more than one travel insurance policy be issued for the same trip ? Each individual is to be insured by not more than one policy during their journey.
Are 'business travellers eligible to purchase a Travel Insurance policy ?  Yes. Our travel insurance is designed for both leisure and business travellers. Business travellers who visit abroad frequently can be pitched with Multi trip plans.
When does cover begin and end ? You are covered from the date of your trip start or policy start date. These will be confirmed on your policy schedule once the policy is purchased.
Is there any exclusion to the travel insurance policy ?  Yes. Some exclusions and conditions are specific to individual sections and General exclusions and conditions apply to the policy overall. Please read the policy wording carefully to ensure you have the cover you need.
What is the maximum trip length for a travel insurance policy ? International travel cover can be purchased for 180 days at a time, and can be extended for another 180 days. This is subject to underwriting guidelines.
If the customer returns home earlier than planned, can he/she get a partial refund on travel insurance ? Yes, we refund part of your premium if no claim has been made on any part of your policy and there is more than 30 days left from the expiry date.
From where can customer access the list of hospitals ?  The customers need to be directed to our ASP – EAI for the details regarding network hospitals. 
What is the duration of the policy we can issue on an immigrant Visa ? Maximum duration is 90 days and cannot be extended.
Is it mandatory for the customer to be in India while international travel policy issuance ? Yes.
What is bounced booking- Hotel/Airline ? The company shall reimburse the actual additional expenses/cost incurred by you up to the sum insured specified in the policy schedule for alternative flight arrangements or for alternative accommodation in the event of the confirmed flight reservation for any part of the trip within the period of insurance bouncing at the sole instance of the common carrier or bouncing of the confirmed accommodation booking at place of stay being part of the trip solely at the instance of the accommodation provider. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What is Personal Effects & Baggage Loss ? The company shall compensate you insured for the loss of Checked in baggage occurring any time after the delivery of the baggage is taken from the common carrier against surrender of the receipt of the common carrier, or in any case any time after the insured leaves the exit gate of the airport(including while he is travelling in the rented vehicle), and anytime before the checked in baggage is once again checked-in in connection with furtherance of the scheduled journey being part of the trip within the period of insurance, on actual on declaration of such loss by the insured, provided that, the overall liability under this Benefit shall be limited to the sum specified in the Policy Schedule. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What is Hand Baggage Cover ? The cover in relation to hand baggage shall commence from the time the Insured shall have passed through the security at the airport at the port of origin and continue until the Insured completes or terminates his / her trip covered. The compensation shall be relating to the loss of baggage as a whole, and shall be on actuals on declaration of such loss by the insured, provided that the overall liability under this benefit shall be limited to the sum specified in the Policy Schedule. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
Explain Value Added Services for travel insurance ?  Is it applicable for all Plans ?  With International Travel Insurance policy you can enjoy a bundle of concierge services for your dependants in India while you are travelling. It is only applicable for Platinum Plan under Single round trip Single round trip & Gold Multi Trip Plan
What is Political risk and Catastrophe Evacuation cover under travel insurance policy ? If whilst the Insured is on the Trip covered within the Period of Insurance and:Officials in the country where Insured is visiting, recommend that certain categories of persons which include the Insured should leave the country, orInsured is expelled from or declared persona non grata in the Country he is in, orA catastrophe (fire, flood, earthquake, storm, lightning, explosion, hurricane or epidemic due to contagious disease) has occurred in the Country the Insured is in, necessitating his immediate evacuation in order to avoid risk of personal Injury or Illness to himself then the Company shall payThe cost of Insured’s return to the Country of Residence or the nearest place of safety up to the cost of an economy class air ticket for the sameInsured’s reasonable accommodation costs up to a maximum of USD 300 per day for a maximum of 7 days if the Insured is unable to return to the Country of Residence The Company’s liability under this Benefit shall not exceed the Sum Insured as specified against this Benefit in the Policy Schedule which is USD 7500.
Explain Accidental Death in Common Carrier under travel insurance policy ? The company offers cover to an insured at the time of accidental death in a common carrier. The company is not liable to cover the insured if :He/she is under the influence of drug/ alcoholand/or if he/she has attempted an intentional suicide/self-injury . (Applicable for Single round trip Single round trip & Gold Multi Trip Plan)
What is covered under Compassionate visit under travel insurance policy ?  In event of the Insured being Hospitalized consequent upon any Injury sustained and / or Illness contracted at any place being part of the Trip covered hereunder and such Hospitalization shall in the opinion of the medical practitioner attending on the Insured extend beyond a period of 5 days, the Company shall pay the sum as specified in the Policy Schedule per day or part thereof for special assistance rendered to the Insured during the period of Hospitalization by any person of the Family or near relatives.The Company shall also reimburse the cost of the economy class air ticket incurred by the person rendering such special assistance from and to the place of origin of such person or the place of residence of the person. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What is covered under Emergency Hotel Extension under travel insurance policy ? The Company shall pay the actual additional expenses for lodging and boarding incurred by the Insured subject to the maximum Sum Insured as specified in Policy Schedule if the departure of the Insured shall be delayed either at the port at the place of origin or at any intermediate ports forming part of the Trip within the Period of Insurance solely arising out of and consequent upon contingencies like Earthquake, flood, terrorism, Cancellation or rescheduling of flights, lost or stolen passport or travel documents & hospitalization. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What is the coverage for Home Contents against Burglary under travel insurance policy ? The coverage for contents of the home is Rs.1,00,000. The contents of your home are insured as per the market value. The policy covers the losses to the contents due to burglary. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What are the average costs of medical treatment abroad undert travel insurance policy ? Please refer to the table for average costs of medical treatment abroad in the U.S. vis-a-vis India.
Do you have tie up with United HealthGroup ? Yes. We have allied with UnitedHealth Group (UHG), one of the largest health care companies in the US. This tie-up will give all our travellers access to United Healthcare's network of hospitals & physicians.
What is an Immigrant Visa ? An immigrant visa is required for anyone who wishes to enter a country to reside there permanently. To receive an immigrant visa, one has to meet certain requirements usually in education, family or work field, depending on the immigration laws of that particular country.
How do I know which clinics/hospitals are covered by the bank and which are not ? In case of Hospitalisation or treatment availed in countries other than US (cashless claims), you need to call up our ASP Europ Assistance who will in turn activate their local networks in the country of clam. You can walk into any Hospital and just inform the ASP about it. In case of US cashless, our ASP handling US claims is UHI which the global arm of UHC and is one of the largest medical care providers. To know the network of hospitals covered by UHI you can just give a call to Europe Assistance on the toll free nos. mentioned below who will provide you with the required list /details. For all policies in US or in India, the claims are settled through the ASP. Please try the toll free number mentioned on our website
How many times can we extend the travel insurance policy in one year duration ? You can extend the policy any number of times provided the total duration of the policy is less than or equal to 360 days
Can I buy International Travel Insurance if I am traveling on an immigrant visa ? Yes, you can buy International Travel Insurance even if you are traveling on an immigrant visa. However, the maximum duration of your policy can only be 90 days.
Does this policy cover Pre-existing diseases ? Any claim due to or arising out of pre-existing medical condition/ailment whether declared or undeclared is not covered under the policy.
What if I lose my passport ?  Is that covered ? Yes, passport loss is covered in our policy. Expenses incurred towards the procurement of a duplicate / temporary passport are also covered.
What is the coverage for Home Structure ? The coverage for structure of the home is INR 20,00,000. The structure of your home is insured as per the re-instatement value. The policy covers the losses to the structure of your home due to any natural and man made calamities. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What is the coverage for Home Contents ? The coverage for contents of the home is INR 10,00,000. The contents of your home are insured as per the market value. The policy covers the losses to the contents due to natural and manmade calamities including burglary. (The coverage is only applicable for Platinum plan)
What happens if my baggage is delayed for more than one day but not lost ? The International Travel Insurance policy covers checked-in baggage loss and delay. If your baggage is delayed for more than 6 hours, the compensation for emergency items purchased, like medicines, clothing and toiletries would be given. If your baggage is lost, then compensation for the market value of the items lost is given.
What do I do if I fall sick when I am overseas ? In case of an emergency, go to the hospital and avail the treatment. Then call the helpline number mentioned on our website and they will assist you in providing for cashless services. Any claim which is less than USD 200 will be eligible under reimbursement only.
Which hospitals are covered under the International Travel Policy ? You can access worldwide hospitalization coverage through our ASP - Europ Assistance. In order to facilitate greater access to quality health care, ICICI Lombard has partnered with leading US-based Health Care provider UnitedHealth Group, to provide better health care benefits and services to be availed when in the US.
In the event of an accident or illness, what if it is not possible to consult a physician or a doctor ?  In an event of an accident or illness if it is not possible to contact a physician or doctor, an alarm centre should be contacted immediately. They will help organise medical services for you.
If I take a 2 month Travel Insurance Policy, would I be able to extend it later, as per my requirement ? Yes, you can extend your International Travel Insurance Policy very easily, online. We would however, recommend you to buy the policy for the full duration, as the extension depends on the terms and conditions of the Company. Please refer to the Policy wording for details.Senior Citizen (for age between 71 yrs to 85 yrs) policy can be issued for a maximum of 360 days including extensions.i.e If a customer has taken a policy for 180 days, he can further extend the same to another 180 days subject to underwriting guidelines.In case you decide to shorten your stay before the policy expires, you can reimburse the premium for unused policy duration (minimum unused period must be 30 days). For instance, if you take a policy with initial duration of six months but later decide to come back earlier, you can reimburse the premium for unused policy duration provided you are in India by the end of fifth month.
Is there cover for pre-medical conditions like Diabetes ? Any claim due to or arising out of pre-existing medical condition/ailment whether declared or undeclared is not covered under the policy.
Do you cover Pre-existing for normal visit ? Any claim due to or arising out of pre-existing medical condition/ailment whether declared or undeclared is not covered under the policy.
How do I know limit of each type of expenses ?  What expenses are covered or not ? Kindly go through the policy wording, it has all fine prints of policy
What do you mean by daily allowance $50 ? If the Insured Person is hospitalised for more than 2 days, we provide a daily allowance of $50 as compensation. This benefit can be claimed only once during the Policy period and for a maximum of 5 days. This money can help you to ensure above-standard hospital treatment or help your family with their travel expenses for hospital visits.
How do I know which clinics/hospitals are covered by the bank and which are not ? Almost every hospital is covered with one or the other ASP Our ASP is Europe Assistance. They have tie-ups with all local ASPs, connecting an exhaustive list of hospitals. You can safely assume, that all decent hospitals will be able to provide you cashless services
I would be travelling for only 4 days, will I get International Travel Insurance cover ? You would have to pay premiums for a minimum of 1 week, i.e., seven days irrespective of the number of days of travel.
What all conditions are covered under medical coverage ? Below is a brief description of conditions covered under the medical coverageInpatient or Outpatient treatment, provided, the same is critical and cannot be deferred tillthe insured's return to the Republic of India.Medical aid, Radiotherapy, heat therapy, photo therapy, X-Ray, Diagnostic test and other such treatment/diagnostic tests prescribed by a Physician Cost of transportation, including necessary medical care en-route, by recognized emergency service providers for medical attention at the nearest hospital or at the nearest Physician
What are the modes of premium payment ?  Now you can choose between 5 payment options to pay your premium online:Credit Card – Make secure premium payment with your VISA, Master and AMEX card. Net banking - Transfer premium amounts online through ICICI Bank and 9 other select Banks Bill Pay – Use your bank Internet Banking account to pay your Motor Insurance premium Debit Card – Just enter your Citibank Debit Card details to pay your insurance premium directly Cash Card - Use your Done Card to make payment online.Choose the product you plan to buy and log in to Buy Online.Fill in the transaction details.Choose from the 3, 6 , 12 or 24 months options according to your convenience.Access your policy immediately online