Charity - Charities, Clubs and Associations - In the case of accounts to be opened for charities, clubs, and societies,the bank should take reasonable steps to identify and verify at least two signatories along with the institution itself. The principals who should be identified should be considered to be those persons exercising control or significant influence over the organization’s assets. This will often include members of a governing body.
Corporate Entity - For corporate entities (i.e.,corporations and partnerships), the following information should be obtained: • name of institution; • principal place of institution’s business operations; • mailing address of institution; • contact telephone and fax numbers; • some form of official identification number, if available (e.g., TIN); • the original or certified copy of the Certificate of Incorporation and Memorandum and Articles of Association; • the resolution of the Board of Directors to open an account and identification of those who have authority to operate the account; and • nature and purpose of business and its legitimacy. 20. The bank should verify this information by at least one of the following methods: • for established corporate entities - reviewing a copy of the latest report and accounts (audited if available); • conducting an enquiry by a business information service, or an undertaking from a reputable and known firm of lawyers or accountants confirming the documents submitted; • undertaking a compny search and/ or other commercial enquiries to see that the institution has not been, or is not in the process of being, dissolved, struck off, wound up or terminated; • utilizing an independent information verification process, such as by accessing public and private databases; • obtaining prior bank references; • visiting the corporate entity, where practical; and • contacting the corporate entity by telephone, mail or e-mail. 21. The bank should also take reasonable steps to verify the identity and reputation of any agent that opens an account on behalf of a corporate customer, if that agent is not an officer of the corporate customer.
Corporations - Corporations/Partnerships 22. For corporations/partnerships, the principal guidance is to look behind the institution to identify those who have control over the business and the company’s/partnership’s assets, including those who have ultimate control. For corporations, particular attention should be paid to shareholders, signatories, or others who inject a significant proportion of the capital or financial support or otherwise exercise control. Where the owner is another corporate entity or trust, the objective is to undertake reasonable measures to look behind that company or entity and to verify the identity of the principals. What constitutes control for this purpose will depend on the nature of a company, and may rest in those who are mandated to manage funds, accounts or investments without requiring further authorization, and who would be in a position to override internal procedures and control mechanisms. For partnerships, each partner should be identified and it is also important to identify immediate family members that have ownership control. 23. Where a company is listed on a recognized stock exchange or is a subsidiary of such a company then the company itself may be considered to be the principal to be identified. However, consideration should be given to whether there is effective control of a listed company by an individual, small group of individuals or another corporate entity or trust. If this is the case then those controllers should also be considered to be principals and identified accordingly 
Natural Process - For natural persons the following information should be obtained, where applicable: • legal name and any other names used (such as maiden name); • correct permanent address (the full address should be obtained; a Post Office box number is not sufficient); • telephone number, fax number, and e-mail address; • date and place of birth; • nationality; • occupation, public position held and/or name of employer; • an official person identification number or other unique identifier contained in an unexpired official document (e.g., passport, identification card, residence permit, social security records, driving license) that bears a photograph of the customer; • type of account and nature of the banking relationship; • signature. 11. The bank should verify this information by at least one of the following methods: • confirming the date of birth from an official document (e.g., birth certificate, passport, identity card, social security records); • confirming the permanent address (e.g., utility bill, tax assessment, bank statement, a letter from a public authority); • contacting the customer by telephone, by letter or by e-mail to confirm the information supplied after an account has been opened (e.g., a disconnected phone, returned mail, or incorrect e-mail address should warrant further investigation); • confirming the validity of the official documentation provided through certification by an authorized person (e.g., embassy official, notary public). 12. The examples quoted above are not the only possibilities. In particular jurisdictions there may be other documents of an equivalent nature which may be produced as satisfactory evidence of customer’s identity. 13. FIs should apply equally effective customer identification procedures for nonface-to-face customers as for those available for interview. 14. From the information provided in paragraph 10, FIs should be able to make an initial assessment of a customer’s risk profile. Particular attention needs to be focused on those customers identified thereby as having a higher risk profile and additional inquiries made or information obtained in respect of those customers to include the following: • evidence of an individual’s permanent address sought through a credit reference agency search, or through independent verification by home visits; • personal reference (i.e., by an existing customer of the same institution); • prior bank reference and contact with the bank regarding the customer; • source of wealth; and • verification of employment, publicposition held (where appropriate). 15. For one-off or occasional transactions where the amount of the transaction or series of linked transactions does not exceed an established minimum monetary value, it might be sufficient to require and record only name and address. 16. It is important that the customer acceptance policy is not so restrictive that it results in a denial of access by the generalpublic to banking services, especially for people who are financially or socially disadvantaged.
Other types of institutions - Other Types of Institution 4. For the account categories referred to paragraphs 26 to 34, the following information should be obtained in addition to that required to verify the identity of the principals: • name of account; • mailing address; • contact telephone and fax numbers; • some form of official identification number, if available (e.g., TIN); • description of the purpose/activities of the account holder (e.g., in a formal constitution); and • copy of documentation confirming the legal existence of the account holder (e.g., register of charities). 25. The bank should verify this information by at least one of the following: • obtaining an independent undertaking from a reputable and known firm of lawyers or accountants confirming the documents submitted; • obtaining prior bank references; and • accessing public and private databases or official sources.
Professional Intermediaries - 31. When a professional intermediary opens a client account on behalf of a single client that client must be identified. Professional intermediaries will often open “pooled” accounts on behalf of a number of entities. Where funds held by the intermediary are not co-mingled but where there are “sub-accounts” which can be attributable to each beneficial owner, all beneficial owners of the account held by the intermediary should be identified. Where the funds are co-mingled, the bank should look through to the beneficial owners; however, there may be circumstances which should be set out in supervisory guidance where the bank may not need to look beyond the intermediary (e.g., when the intermediary is subject to the same due diligence standards in respect of its client base as the bank). 32. Where such circumstances apply and an account is opened for an open or close-ended investment company, unit trust or limited partnership which is also subject to the same diligence standards in respect of its client base as the bank, the following should be considered as principals and the bank should take steps to identify: • the fund itself; • its directors or any controlling board where it is a company; • its trustee where it is a unit trust; • its managing (general) partner where it is a limited partnership; • account signatories; and • any other person who has control over the relationship, e.g., fund administrator or manager. 33. Where other investment vehicles are involved, the same steps should be taken as in paragraph 32 where it is appropriate to do so. In addition, all reasonable steps should be taken to verify the identity of the beneficial owners of the funds and of those who have control of the funds. 34. Intermediaries should be treated as individual customers of the bank and the standing of the intermediary should be separately verified by obtaining the appropriate information drawn from the itemized lists included in paragraphs 19-20 above
Retirement Benefit Programmes - Retirement Benefit Programmes 26. Where an occupational pension programme, employee benefit trust or share option plan is an applicant for an account the trustee and any other person who has control over the relationship (e.g., administrator, programme manager, and account signatories) should be considered as principals and the bank should take steps to verify their identities