abroad branch - Requirements for establishing an office abroad a.The citizenship requirements, ownership ceilings and other limitations on voting stockholdings in banks under existing law and regulations; b. Experience and expertise in international banking operations as shown by: (1) Its international banking operations for at least three (3) years prior to the date of application; (2) Substantial income derived from international banking operations; and (3) Established correspondent relationship with reputable banks.
Office abroad- Application for authority to establish an office abroad. An application for authority to establish an office abroad shall be signed by the president of the bank and shall be accompanied by the following information/documents: a. Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the establishment of that office indicating its proposed site; b. Economic justification for such establishment, indicating among other things, the services to be offered, the minimum outlay such as capital requirement of the host country, outlay for furniture, fixture and equipment, rental and other expenses; c. Organizational set up of the proposed office showing the proposed positions and the names, qualifications and experience of the proposed manager and other officers; d. Certification signed by the  president or the executive vice president that the bank has complied with the standard pre-qualification requirements for the grant of banking authorities enumerated in Appendix 5; and e. Certification from the host country that the duly authorized personnel/ examiners of the BSP will be authorized to examine the proposed office.Requirements for opening an office abroad. After a bank’s application to establish a branch has been approved, it may open the same subject to the following conditions: a. Submission by the applicant bank of a written notice at least thirty (30) days prior to the intended date of opening, accompanied by the following: (1) Proof or evidence of outward remittance needed to meet the capital requirements prescribed by the host country; (2) List of principal and junior officers of the proposed branch/es and their respective designations and salaries; and (3) Personal information sheet (Biodata) for each of the officers to enable the BSP to evaluate their qualifications as officers; and b. A certification signed by the bank’s president or executive vice president that the standard pre qualification requirements enumerated in Appendix 5 have been complied with up to the date of the aforementioned written notice. A bank that fails to continuously comply with the requirements shall be given an extension of time to open such office after it has shown compliance for another test period of the same duration required of each requirement
Branch Offices - branches/other banking offices anywhere, including in Metro Manila and in the restricted areas: Provided, That a TB may purchase/acquire branches/other banking offices in Metro Manila, including in the restricted areas, if it has combined capital accounts of at least P325 million: Provided, further, That an RB/local Coop Bank may purchase/acquire branches/other banking offices only in areas where it is allowed to establish branches/other banking offices as provided under Subsec. X151.4; (6) The acquiring bank shall pay a licensing fee per branch/other banking office acquired, as follows:  Location of Branch/Other Banking  Office to be Acquired Type of Within Outside Acquiring Metro Manila Metro Manila Bank UBs and KBs P 1.0 million P 0.5 million TBs P 0.5 million P 0.25 million (7) Within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the intended date of opening of the acquired branch/other banking office, the personal information sheet (bio-data) of the proposed manager and other officers of the branch/other banking office shall be submitted by the acquiring bank to the appropriate department of the SES; and (8) Within five (5) banking days from the date of opening of the acquired branch/other banking office, a written notice of such opening signed by the head of branches department with the rank of vice president or its equivalent rank or by a higher ranking officer shall be submitted by the acquiring bank to the appropriate department of the SES
Definition - Branch shall refer to any permanent office or place of business in the Philippines other than the head office where deposits are accepted and/or withdrawals are serviced by tellers or other authorized personnel. It maintains a complete set of books of accounts.
Branch Establishment - An application for authority to establish a branch shall be signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank and shall be accompanied by the following information/ documents: a. Business plan detailing the primary banking activities/products and services to be offered; competition analysis to show that its application will not lead to over banking in the target market; and financial projections for the first three (3) years of operations showing sustained viability, as may be required by the appropriate department of the SES: Provided, That normally operating UBs, KBs, and TBs with total resources of P1 billion or more shall be exempt from the foregoing requirements, a bank is not considered normally operating if it is under PCA or is non-compliant with supervisory directives duly confirmed by the Monetary Board. In the evaluation of the business plan, due consideration shall be given to banks that are able or are committed to invest or deploy branch resources in their area of operations; b. Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the establishment of the branch and indicating its proposed site; c. Organizational set up of the proposed branch showing the proposed staffing pattern; and d. Certification/Undertaking signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank that the bank has complied or will comply, as the case maybe, with the prerequisites for the grant of authority to establish a branch
Branches may be established, subject to the
Branch Guidelines - following guidelines: a. Only one (1) branch application may be submitted at any time except for banks with at least P100.0 million combined capital accounts, as defined under Sec. X106, which may be allowed a maximum of five (5) including approved but unopened branch applications, at any time; b. Only applications submitted with complete documentary requirements enumerated in Subsec. X151.3 shall be accepted. Processing shall be on a first come, first-served basis; c. Industry/market notice of application for authority to establish a branch shall be posted at the BSP website upon receipt thereof; d. As a general rule, banks shall be allowed to establish branches anywhere in the Philippines, except in the cities of Makati, Mandaluyong, Manila, Parañaque, Pasay, Pasig, Quezon and San Juan (restricted areas): Provided, however, That RBs/local Coop Banks shall not be allowed to establish branches in Metro Manila e. A maximum of two (2) branches shall be allowed in each of the 4th, 5th or 6th class municipalities; and f. The Monetary Board may decide to disapprove an otherwise qualified branch application if in its determination such branch application will lead to an overbanking situation in the specific market
Prerequisite - With prior approval of the Monetary Board, banks may establish branches subject to the following pre-qualification requirements: a. The bank has complied with the minimum capital requirement under Subsec. X106.1, but not lower than P10 million, in the case of RBs and Local Cooperative (Coop) Banks. b. The bank’s risk-based CAR at the time of filing the application is not lower than twelve percent (12%); c. The bank’s CAMELS composite rating in the latest examination is at least “3”, with management component score not lower than “3”; d. The bank has established a risk management system appropriate to its operations, characterized by clear delineation of responsibility for risk management, adequate risk measurement system, appropriately structured risk limits, effective internal control system and complete, timely and efficient risk reporting system; e.The bank has been operating profitably for the year immediately preceding the date of application, or in the case of newly-established banks, the submitted projection showed that profitability will be attained on the third year of operations, at the latest; and
Branch processing fee - Branch processing fee shall be as follows: a. UBs/KBs/ Affiliated TBs - P 200,000 b. Non-affiliated TBs/ National Coop Banks - P 100,000 c. RBs/Local Coop Banks - P 25,000 d. Microfinance-oriented banks or microfinance/ BMBE-oriented branches of banks - P 5,000 Provided, That branches of TBs, RBs and local Coop Banks to be established within the region where the head office is located shall be free from assessment.
Branch Relocation- Relocation of existing/ operating branches/other banking offices shall be allowed without prior Monetary Board approval in accordance with the following procedures: a. Notice of relocation shall be sent to depositors and other creditors, where applicable, by registered mail or proof of delivery (POD) service of the Philippine Postal Corporation (PhilPost) or other mail couriers and posters shall be displayed in conspicuous places in the premises of the branch/other banking office to be relocated at least three (3) months prior to the relocation: Provided, That said notification period may be reduced to forty-five (45) calendar days under any of the following circumstances: (1) as an incentive to merger or consolidation of banks; (2) as an incentive to the purchase or acquisition of majority or all of the outstanding shares of stock of a distressed bank for the purpose of rehabilitating the same; or 3) the proposed relocation site is within the same barangay of the branch/ other banking office to be relocated. b. Within five (5) banking days from the date of relocation, a notice of relocation together with a certification signed by the head of the Branches Department with the rank of vice president or its equivalent rank or by a higher ranking officer that the notification requirement under Item “a” above has been complied with shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES. The certification shall be accompanied by a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the relocation; c. Branches located in the restricted areas may be relocated anywhere; d. Branches located in other areas may be relocated anywhere except in the restricted areas: Provided, That branches of TBs may be relocated in Metro Manila but outside the restricted areas if they have complied with the minimum capital requirement for TBs with head offices in Metro: Provided further, That branches of RBs and local Coop Banks may be transferred only in areas where they are allowed to establish branches: Provided finally, That existing branches of RBs and local Coop Banks in cities and municipalities of Metro Manila other than in the restricted areas may be relocated anywhere, except in the restricted areas; and e. Other banking offices may be relocated only in areas where the bank’s branches are allowed to be relocated as indicated in Items “c” and “d” above.
Branch relocation Sanction -  Sanctions 1. Any violation of the provisions of this Section shall be a ground for the cancellation of the franchise and closure of any branch/other banking office established hereunder without prejudice to the imposition of the applicable criminal and administrative sanctions prescribed under Sections 36 and 37, respectively, of R.A. No. 7653; and 2. If any part of any certification submitted by the bank as required in this Section is found to be false, the following sanctions shall be imposed: a. On the bank. Suspension for one (1) year of the privilege to establish and/or open approved branches/other banking offices, and/or relocate branches/other banking offices. b. On the certifying officer. A fine of P5,000 per day (P200 per day for RBs/Coop Banks) from the time the certification was made up to the time the certification was found to be false for each branch/other banking office opened, relocated, closed or sold without prejudice to the sanctions under Section 35 of R.A. No. 7653
Branch Sale - Sale of branches/other banking offices. Sale of branches/other banking offices may be allowed with prior approval of the Monetary Board in accordance with the following procedures: (1) In the case of sale of branches, the selling and acquiring banks shall secure the prior written consent of the PDIC in the transfer of assets and assumption of liabilities as provided under Section 21 of the PDIC Charter (R.A. No. 3591), as amended by R.A. No. 9302; (2) Request for Monetary Board approval to close the branches/other banking offices to be sold signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank, together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the sale shall be submitted by the selling bank to the appropriate department of the SES; (3) Upon receipt of the notice of Monetary Board approval but at least three (3) months prior to the closure, notice of sale shall be sent to depositors and other creditors, where applicable, by registered mail or POD service of the Philpost or other mail couriers, and posters shall be displayed in conspicuous places in the premises of the branch/other banking office to be sold: Provided, That said notification period may be reduced to forty five (45) calendar days when there is no actual closure or disruption of operations. Depositors shall likewise be informed of their option to withdraw their deposits or to maintain the same with the acquiring bank; (4) Within five (5) banking days from the date of closure, a notice of such closure, together with a certification signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank that the notification requirement under Item “3” above has been complied with, shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES; (5) Request for Monetary Board approval to acquire the branch/other banking office signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank, together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the acquisition shall be submitted by the acquiring bank to the appropriate department of the SES. The acquiring bank shall likewise comply with the following: (a) Minimum capital requirement under Subsec. X106.1 but not lower than ten (P10) million in the case of of RBs and local Coop Banks; (b) Ten percent (10%) risk-based CAR; (c) CAMELS composite rating not lowerthan “3” with management component score not lower than “3” in the latest examination of the bank; and (d) Ceiling on total investments of a bank in real estate and improvements thereon, including bank equipment
Date of opening-Date of opening. Approved branches/other banking offices shall be opened within six (6) months from the date of approval thereof: Provided, That an applicant bank may be given a final extension of another six (6) months by the Deputy Governor, SES, subject to the presentation of justification and valid reason for the failure to open the branch/other banking office within the original six (6) - month period and proof that said branch/ other banking office can be opened within the succeeding six (6) - month period 
Establishment of other banking offices. Other banking offices may be established with prior Monetary Board approval, and subject to compliance with the following: a. Minimum capital requirement under Subsec. X106.1 but not lower than P10.0 million in the case of RBs and local Coop Banks; b. Ten percent (10%) risk-based CAR; c. CAMELS composite rating not lower than “3”, with management component score not lower than “3” in the latest examination of the bank; and d. Ceiling on total investments of a bank in real estate and improvements thereon, including bank equipment. The application to establish other banking offices shall be signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank and submitted to the appropriate department of the SES together with the following documents: 1. Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the establishment of the other banking office and indicating its proposed site; 2. Purpose statement indicating the bank’s objective or reason for establishing the other banking office; and 3. Undertaking signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank that said other banking office shall not accept deposits and/or service withdrawals thru tellers or other authorized personnel. In the case of LCDPs of microfinanceoriented banks and microfinance/ BMBE-oriented branches of banks, the undertaking shall state that the LCDP shall accept deposits thru tellers or other authorized personnel solely from existing microfinance/BMBE borrowers. Other banking offices may be established only in areas where the bank is allowed to establish branches as provided under Subsec. X151.4. Transitory provision. Other banking offices existing as of 01 November 2008, which are manned by less than three (3) officers/employees at any time, accepting deposits through tellers or other authorized personnel, and are located in areas where the banks concerned are allowed to establish branches under the guidelines prescribed in this Section may apply for the conversion of these other banking offices to branches or extension offices subject to compliance with the guidelines on the establishment of branches, otherwise, these other banking offices shall phase-out their deposit operations within one (1) year from 01 November 2008.
Extension office shall refer to any permanent office or place of business in the Philippines other than the head office or a branch, where deposits are accepted and/ or withdrawals are serviced by tellers or other authorized personnel. It does not maintain a complete set of books of accounts as its transactions are taken-up directly in the books of the head office or a branch to which it is attached. It shall be treated as a branch for purposes of this Section and its Subsections
Other banking office shall refer to any office or place of business in the Philippines other than the head office, branch or extension office, which primarily engages in banking activities other than the acceptance of deposits and/or servicing of withdrawals thru tellers or other authorized personnel. It shall include loan collection and disbursement points (LCDPs) of microfinance-oriented banks and microfinance/barangay micro business enterprise (BMBE)-oriented branches of banks which may accept deposits solely from existing microfinance/BMBE borrowers: Provided, That account openings and other banking transactions of said microfinance/ BMBE borrowers shall be done only at the head office/branches/ extension offices or thru automated teller machines (ATMs), as may be applicable
Relocation of Head Offices Relocation of a bank’s head office shall require prior approval of the Monetary Board in accordance with the following procedures: a. Request for Monetary Board approval of the relocation of the bank’s head office signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES together with the following documentary requirements: (1) A certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the proposed relocation/transfer of the head office, and stating the justification/reasons therefor; (2) A certified true copy of stockholders’ resolution authorizing the amendment of the articles of incorporation of the bank; (3) Description of the building and/or place of relocation, manner of occupancy, i.e., whether lease or purchase, estimate of the total costs to be incurred in connection with the transfer, and the proposed timetable for such relocation; and (4) Plan for the disposition of the original site. b. Upon receipt of the notice of Monetary Board approval but at least three (3) months prior to the relocation, notice of relocation shall be sent to depositors and other creditors by registered mail or POD service of the Philpost or other mail couriers, and poster shall be displayed in conspicuous places in the premises of the head office to be relocated: Provided, That said notification period may be reduced to forty-five (45) calendar days under any of the following circumstances: (1) As an incentive to merger or consolidation of banks; (2) As an incentive to the purchase or acquisition of majority or all of the outstanding shares of stock of a distressed bank for the purpose of rehabilitating the same; or (3) The proposed relocation site is within the same municipality/city of the head office to be relocated. c. Within five (5) banking days from the date of relocation, a notice of relocation, together with a certification signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank that the notification requirement under Item “b” above has been complied with shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES. A bank’s head office may be relocated only in areas where the bank may be authorized to establish branches as provide in Subsec. X151.4. The executive offices of the bank shall not be separated from the head office, i.e., these shall be located where the bank’s head office is located. Relocation of any other department/unit of the bank not performing front-office operation, i.e., not dealing with the banking public, shall not require prior Monetary Board approval: Provided however, That within five (5) banking days from date of relocation, a notice of relocation signed by a vice president or officer of equivalent rank or by a higher ranking officer, together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the relocation, shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES
Requirements for opening a branch/other banking office. After a bank’s application to establish a branch/other banking office has been approved, it may open the same subject to its submission to the appropriate department of the SES of the following: a. Within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the intended date of opening, personal information sheet (bio-data) of the proposed manager and other officers of the branch/other banking office; and b. Within ten (10) banking days prior to the intended date of opening, a certification signed by the head of the Branches Department with the rank of a vice president, or its equivalent or by a higher ranking officer that the installation of the required security devices under Item “b” of Subsec. X171.4 has been complied with. The bank shall likewise submit a written notice to the appropriate department of the SES of the actual date of opening of its branch/other banking office not later than five (5) banking days from such opening, together with a certification signed by the head of the branches department with the rank of a vice president, or its equivalent or by a higher ranking officer that the requirements enumerated under Subsec. X151.2/X151.6 have been complied with as of the time of actual opening of the branch/other banking office. A bank that fails to comply with any one (1) of the requirements in Subsec.X151.2/ X151.6 as of the date of the intended opening of the branch/other banking office shall refrain from opening the branch/other banking office on such date until it has complied with all of the requirements under Subsec. X151.2/ X151.6: Provided, That if the branch/other banking office, cannot open within six (6) months from the date of the original approval of the establishment of such branch/other banking office, the provisions of Subsec. X151.7 on the final extension to open the branch/other banking office shall be observed  
tellering booths - The following rules shall govern the establishment of tellering booths in BIR offices: a. As a general policy, the establishment of tellering booths in BIR offices are not authorized. However, in cases where tellering booths in offices are needed as determined by the BIR, banks shall secure prior Monetary Board approval; b. A bank’s application shall be accompanied by a letter from the BIR Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner or other officer specifically authorized by the Commissioner to sign such letter, stating that the BIR has agreed to allow the applicant bank to establish a tellering booth in the specified BIR office; c. The applicant bank has complied with the standard pre qualification requirements prescribed in Appendix 5; and d. Tax collections received shall be subject to rules on government deposits.
Temporary closure- Temporary closure of branches/other banking offices.  Temporary closure of branches/ other banking offices for the purpose of undertaking renovations/major repairs of branch/office premises/facilities may be allowed for a period not exceeding six (6) months subject to the prior approval of the Deputy Governor, SES, and compliance with the following conditions: (1) Request for approval of the temporary closure of the branch/other banking office signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES, together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing said closure stating the justifications/reasons therefor. The request shall include information as to the timetable for said closure and the branch/other banking office that will handle the transactions of the branch/other banking office to be closed; (2) Upon receipt of notice of approval by the Deputy Governor, SES, but at least three (3) months prior to the intended date of closure, notice of temporary closure shall be sent to depositors and other creditors, where applicable, by registered mail or POD service of the Philpost or other mail couriers, and posters shall be displayed in conspicuous places in the premises of the branch/other banking office to be closed. Information as to the duration of said closure and the address of the branch/other banking office that will handle the transactions of the branch/other banking office to be closed shall be indicated in the said notice/posters; (3) The transactions of the branch/other banking office to be closed shall be handled by the branch/other banking office nearest to the branch/other banking office to be closed; (4) Within five (5) banking days after the date of closure, a notice of such closure signed by the head of the branches department with the rank of a vice president, or its equivalent or by a higher ranking officer together with a certification that the notification requirement under Item “2” above has been complied with shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES. (5) Within five (5) banking days after re-opening of the branch/other banking office, notice of such re-opening signed by the head of the branches department with the rank of a vice president, or its equivalent or by a higher ranking officer shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES.
Voluntary closure of branches - a. Voluntary closure of branches/ other banking offices. Voluntary closure of branches/other banking offices may be effected only with prior approval of the Monetary Board in accordance with the following procedures: (1) Request for Monetary Board approval of the closure of branches/other banking offices signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank, together with a certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the closure and stating the justification/reasons therefore, shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES; (2) Upon receipt of the notice of Monetary Board approval but at least three (3) months prior to the closure, notice of closure shall be sent to depositors and other creditors by registered mail or POD service of the PhilPost or other mail couriers and posters shall be displayed in conspicuous places in the premises of the branch/banking office to be closed: Provided that said notification period may be reduced to forty five (45) calendar days under any of the following circumstances: (a) As an incentive to merger or consolidation of banks; (b) As an incentive to the purchase or acquisition of majority or all of the outstanding shares of stock of a distressed bank for the purpose of rehabilitating the same; or (c) The proposed relocation site is within the same barangay of the branch/ other banking office to be relocated; and (3) Within five (5) banking days from date of closure, a notice of closure, together with a certification signed by the president of the bank or officer of equivalent rank, that the notification requirement in Item “2” above has been complied with, shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES