Bank Capital- The following provisions shall govern the capital requirements for banks. The term capital shall be synonymous to unimpaired capital and surplus, combined capital accounts and net worth and shall refer to the total of the unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and undivided profits, less: a. Unbooked valuation reserves and other capital adjustments as may be required by the BSP; b. Total outstanding unsecured credit accommodations, both direct and indirect, to directors, officers, stockholders, and their related interests (DOSRI) granted by the bank proper; c. Unsecured loans, other credit accommodations and guarantees granted to subsidiaries and affiliates; d. Deferred income tax; e. Appraisal increment reserve (revaluation reserve) as a result of  appreciation or an increase in the book value of bank assets; f. Equity investment of a bank in another bank or enterprise, whether foreign or domestic, if the other bank or enterprise has a reciprocal equity investment in the investing bank, in which case, the investment of the bank or the reciprocal investment of the other bank or enterprises, whichever is lower; and g. In the case of RBs/Coop Banks, the government counterpart equity, except those arising from conversion of arrearages under the BSP rehabilitation program. With respect to Item “b” hereof, the provisions in Subsec. X326.1 shall apply except that in the definition of stockholders in said Subsection, the qualification that his stockholdings, individually and/or together with his related interest in the lending bank should at least amount to two percent (2%) or more of the total subscribed capital stock of the bank shall not apply for the purpose of this Item 
Minimum Capital - The minimum capital of banks shall be as follows: a. UBs - P5.4 billion each b. KBs - P2.8 billion each c. TBs - (1) With head offices within Metro Manila - P400.0 million each; and (2) With head offices outside Metro Manila - P64.0 million each. d. RBs - (1) An RB may be established in any city or municipality, except in the cities of Manila, Kalookan, Quezon, Pasay, Mandaluyong, Makati, Parañaque, Malabon, Navotas and San Juan; and in the cities of Cebu and Davao, with minimum capital requirements as follows:  (a) In first, second and third class citiesand in first class municipalities - P8.0 million each; (b) In fourth, fifth and sixth class cities and in second, third, and fourth class municipalities - P4.8 million each; and (c) In fifth and sixth class municipalities - P3.2 million each. (2) Existing RBs within the excepted cities and municipalities shall maintain  the following minimum capital requirements: (a) In the cities of Manila, Kalookan, Quezon, Pasay, Mandaluyong, Makati, Parañaque, Malabon, Navotas and San Juan - P32.0 million each; and (b) In the cities of Cebu and Davao - P16 million each. e. Coop Banks - Coop Banks that may be established shall have a minimum authorized capital of: (1) P200.0 million for national Coop Banks divided into such number of shares with a minimum par value of P1,000 per share, with a private paid-in capital of at least P20.0 million; and (2) P20.0 million for local Coop Banks divided into such number of shares, with a private paid-in capital of at least P1.25 million, except as follows: (a) P20.0 million minimum private paid-in capital for Coop Banks to be  established in Metro Manila; (b) P10.0 million minimum private paidin capital for Coop Banks to be established in the cities of Cebu and Davao; and  (c) P5.0 million minimum private paidin capital for Coop Banks to be established in other cities: Provided, however, That for the first Coop Bank organized in the province, although it will be located in a city, the minimum private paid-in capital shall be P1.25 million.  The foregoing minimum capital requirements for UBs, KBs, TBs, and RBs shall immediately apply to applications filed after 12 March 1998.
Rules for share Exchange - As a general rule, the ratio of exchange of shares between or among the participants in a bank merger or consolidation shall be based on mutual agreement of the parties concerned. However, any appraisal increment reserve (revaluation reserve) arising from the revaluation of the fixed assets, as may be agreed upon by the parties shall be limited to premises, improvement, and equipment which are necessary for its immediate accommodation in the transaction of the bank’s business. Such revaluation should be based on fair valuation of the property which shall be subject to review and approval by the BSP.