Document Requirement - Minimum documentary requirements for common trust funds. In addition to the trust agreement or indenture required under Subsec. X409.1, each CTF shall be established, administered and maintained in accordance with a written declaration of trust referred to as the plan, which shall be approved by the board of directors of the trustee and a copy submitted to the appropriate supervising and examining department of the BSP within thirty (30) banking days prior to its implementation. The plan shall make provisions on the following matters: a. Title of the plan; b. Manner in which the plan is to be operated; c. Investment powers of the trustee with respect to the plan, including the character and kind of investments which may be purchased; d. Allocation, apportionment, distribution dates of income, profit and losses; e. Terms and conditions governing the admission or withdrawal as well as expansion or contraction of participation in the plan including the minimum initial placement and account balance to be maintained by the trustor; f. Auditing and settlement of accounts of the trustee with respect to the plan;  g. Detailed information on the basis, frequency, and method of valuing and accounting of CTF assets and each participation in the fund; h. Basis upon which the plan may be terminated; i. Liability clause of the trustee; j. Schedule of fees and commissions which shall be uniformly applied to all participants in a fund and which shall not be changed between valuation dates; and k. Such other matters as may be necessary or proper to define clearly the rights of participants under the plan. The legal capacity of the bank administering a CTF shall be indicated in the plan and other related agreements or contracts as trustee of the fund and not in any other capacity such as fund manager, financial manager, or like terms. The provisions of the plan shall control all participations in the fund and the rights  and benefits of all parties in interest. The plan may be amended by resolution of the board of directors of the trustee: Provided, however, That participants in the fund shall be immediately notified of such amendments and shall be allowed to withdraw their participation if they are not in conformity with the amendments made: Provided, further, That amendments to the plan shall be submitted to the appropriate supervising and examining department of the BSP within ten (10) banking days from approval of the amendments by the board of directors.
Exposure limit - Exposure limit of common trust fund to a single person or entity. No investment for a CTF shall be made in stocks, bonds, bank deposits or other obligations of any one (1) person, firm or corporation, if as a result of such investment the total amount invested in stocks, bonds, bank deposits or other obligations issued or guaranteed by such person, firm or corporation shall aggregate to an amount in excess of fifteen percent (15%) of the market value of the CTF: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to investments in government securities or other evidences of indebtedness of the Republic of the Philippines and of the BSP, and any other evidences of indebtedness or obligations the servicing and repayment of which are fully guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines.
Management - Management of common trust funds. The trustee shall have the exclusive management and control of each CTF administered by it, and the sole right at any time to sell, convert, reinvest, exchange, transfer or otherwise change or dispose of the assets comprising the fund. The trustee shall designate clearly in its records the trust accounts owning participation in the CTF and the extent of the interests of such account. The trustee shall not negotiate nor assign the trustor’s beneficial interest in the CTF without prior written consent of the trustor or beneficiary. No trust account holding a participation in a CTF shall have or be deemed to have any ownership or interest in any particular asset or investment in the CTF but shall have only its proportionate beneficial interest in the fund as a whole
Methodology - Operating and accounting methodology. By its inherent nature, a CTF shall be operated and accounted for in accordance with the following: a. The trustee shall have exclusive management and control of each CTF administered by it and the sole right at any time to sell, convert, reinvest, exchange, transfer or otherwise change or dispose of the assets comprising the fund; b. The total assets and accountabilities of each fund shall be accounted for as a single account referred to as pooled-fund accounting; c. Contributions to each fund by clients shall always be through participation in the fund; d. All such participations shall be pooled and invested as one (1) account (referred to as collective investments); and e. The interest of each participant shall be determined by a formal method of participation valuation established in the written plan of the CTF, and no participation shall be admitted to, or withdrawn from, the fund except on the basis of such valuation.
Tax-exempt -  Tax-exempt common trust funds. The following shall be the features/ requirements of CTFs which may qualify for exemption from the twenty percent (20%) final tax under Section 24(B)(1) of R.A. No. 8424 (The Tax Reform Act of 1997): a. The tax exemption shall apply to CTFs established on or after January 3, 2000; b. The CTF indenture or plan as well as evidences of participation shall clearly indicate that the participants shall be limited to individual trustors/investors who are Filipino citizens or resident aliens and that participation is non-negotiable and non transferable; c. The date of contributions to the CTF shall be clearly indicated in the evidence of participation to serve as basis for the trustee-bank to determine the period of participation for tax exemption purposes; d. The CTF indenture/plan as well as the evidence of participation shall indicate that pursuant to Section 24(B)(1) of R.A. No. 8424, interest income of the CTF derived from investments in interest-bearing instruments (e.g., time deposits, government securities, loans and other debt instruments) which are otherwise subject to the twenty percent (20%) final tax, shall be exempt from said final tax provided participation in the CTF is for a period of at least five (5) years. If participation is for a period less than five (5) years, interest income shall be subject to a final tax which shall be deducted and withheld based on the following schedule –  Rate  Participation Period of Tax Four (4) years to less than five (5) years 5% Three (3) years to less than four (4) years 12% Less than three (3) years 20% Necessarily, the date of contribution shall be clearly indicated in the evidence of participation which shall serve as basis for determining the participation period of each participant; and e. Tax-exempt CTFs established under this Subsection shall be subject to the provisions of Subsecs. X409.1(c), X409.2 up to X409.7, and Items “2 to 7” of this Appendix. Regarding the required prior authority and disclosure under Subsecs. X409.2 and X409.3, a list of prospective and/or outstanding investment outlets that is made available by the trustee for the review of all CTF clients may serve as an alternative compliance, which list shall be updated quarterly
Trustee - Trustee as participant in common trust funds. A trustee administering a CTF shall not have any interest in such fund other than in its capacity as trustee of the CTF nor grant any loan on the security of a participation in such fund: That a trustee which administers funds representing employee benefit plans under trust or investment management may invest funds in the CTF: Provided, further, That in the case of employee benefit plans under trust belonging to employees of entities other than that of the trustee, the trustee may invest such funds in its own CTF only on a temporary basis