Due diligence standards -Due diligence standards a. All CBC should be subjected to appropriate due diligence that will seek to assure that an institution is comfortable conducting business with a particular client given the client’s risk profile. b. The institution may rely on publicly available information obtained either from the CBC or reliable third parties (e.g., regulators, exchanges) to satisfy its due diligence requirements. c. Countries may permit financial institutions to rely on intermediaries or other third parties to perform the Customer Due Diligence (CDD) process or to introduce business, provided that the criteria set out below are met. Where such reliance is permitted, the ultimate responsibility for customer identification and verification remains with the financial institution relying on the third party. The criteria that should be met are as follows: (1) A financial institution relying upon a third party should immediately obtain the necessary information concerning the elements of the CDD process. Financial institutions should take adequate steps to satisfy themselves that copies of identification data and other relevant documentation relating to the CDD  requirements will be made available from the third party upon request without delay. (2) The financial institution should satisfy itself that the third party is regulated and supervised for, and has measures in place to comply with CDD requirements. d. The institution should consider the following elements – (1) CBC domicile and organization (a) jurisdiction where the CBC’s ultimate parent is incorporated and/or headquartered; (b) particular operating unit wishing to maintain relationship; and (c) corporate legal form of CBC. (2) CBC ownership (a) publicly held (3) Shares traded on an exchange in a jurisdiction with an adequately recognized regulatory scheme; and  (4) Identity of any significant controlling interests. (a) or privately owned (5) CBC executive management (a) structure and experience; and (b) existence of PEP. (6) CBC’s Business (a) types of financial products and services; and (b) geographic markets reached. (7) Products and Services Offered (a) business purpose for the  relationship with the CBC; and (b) products and services offered to the CBC. (8) Regulatory status and history CBC; and (b) based on publicly available materials, any criminal or adverse  regulatory action in the recent past. (9) CBC anti-money laundering controls (a) nature and extent of application. (10) No business arrangements with shell banks (a) the institution should confirm that CBC will not use the institution’s products and services to engage in business with shell banks. (11)CBC visit (a) The institution should visit CBC premises prior to or within a reasonable period of time; and (b) The institution confirms that CBC  is not a shell bank 
Responsibility and oversight - Responsibility and oversight Financial institutions should, in relation to cross-border correspondent banking and other similar relationships, in addition to performing normal due diligence measures: a. Gather sufficient information about a respondent institution to understand fully the nature of the respondent’s business and to determine from publicly available information the reputation of the institution and the quality of supervision, including whether it has been subject to money laundering or terrorist financing investigation or regulatory action.  b. Assess the respondent institution’s anti-money laundering and terrorist financing controls. c. Obtain approval from senior management before establishing new correspondent relationships. d. Document the respective responsibilities of each institution. e. With respect to “payable-through accounts”, be satisfied that the respondent  bank has verified the identity of and performed on-going due diligence on the customers having direct access accounts of the correspondent and that it is able to provide relevant customer identification data upon request to the correspondent bank.
Risk–based due diligence - Risk–based due diligence a. Correspondent Banking Clients (CBC) presenting greater risk should be subjected to a higher level of due diligence. b. The financial institution should consider the type of risk indicators in initiating the correspondent banking relationship, and on a continuing basis, to ascertain what reasonable due diligence or  enhanced due diligence it will undertake. c. The risk indicators to be considered are as follows: (1) The Correspondent Banking Client’s (CBC) domicile: (a) Jurisdiction where the CBC is based and/or where its ultimate parent is headquartered. Certain jurisdictions are  internationally recognized as having inadequate anti-money laundering standards, insufficient regulatory supervision or presenting greater risk for crime, corruption or terrorist financing. On the other hand, other jurisdictions such as members of the Financial Action Task force  (FATF) have more robust regulatory environments representing lowers risks. (b) Institutions should review pronouncements from regulatory agencies and international bodies, such as the FATF, to evaluate the degree of risk presented by the jurisdiction in which the CBC is based and/or in which its ultimate parent is headquartered.  (2) The Correspondent Banking Client’s Ownership and Management Structures: (a) location of owners; (b) their corporate legal form; (c) transparency or ownership structure; (d) location and experience of management; and  (e) involvement of politically exposed persons (PEPs) in the management or ownership. (3) The Correspondent Banking Client’s Business and Customer Base: (a) type of businesses the CBC engages  in; (b) type of markets the CBC serves;(c) involvement in certain business  segments internationally recognized as creating particular vulnerability to money laundering, corruption or terrorist financing; and (d) substantial part of business income derived from higher risk clients (i.e., clients of a CBC that may be involved in activities or are connected to jurisdictions that are identified by credible sources as activities or countries being especially susceptible to money laundering). d. The institution may give the appropriate weight to each risk factor as it  deems necessary.
Shell Banks a. A shell bank is a bank that (a) does not conduct business at a fixed address in a jurisdiction in which the shell bank is authorized to engage in banking activities; (b) does not employ one or more individuals on a full time business at this  fixed address; (c) does not maintain operating records at this address, and (d) is not subject to inspection by the banking authority that licensed it to conduct banking activities.  b. Financial institutions should refuse to enter into, or continue, a correspondent banking relationship with shell banks. Financial institutions should also guard against establishing relations with respondent foreign financial institutions that permit their accounts to be used by shell banks.