Checks Without Sufficient - Checks Without Sufficient Funds. To complement the provisions of Batas Pambansa Blg. 22, (An Act Penalizing the Making or Drawing and Issuance of a Check Without Sufficient Funds or Credit), the following regulations shall govern: a. The drawee bank shall stamp, write or print on a dishonored check or on a paper attached thereto the date the check is presented for payment and the reason for the refusal to pay the same to the holder thereof. b. Where the reason for the dishonor of a check is stamped, written or printed on a paper attached to the checks, the drawee bank shall indicate the pertinent  details, such as the names of the drawer,the payee and the drawee bank, the date and amount of the check, the check number and the date of dishonor. c. The drawee bank shall use only  the remark or notation “Drawn Against Insufficient Funds”, “No Funds”, or “Insufficient Funds” stamped, written, or printed on, or attached to the check  dishonored or returned by reason of insufficiency of funds or credit. d. Notwithstanding receipt of an order to stop payment, the drawee bank shall likewise stamp, write, or print on, or attach to the check any of the remarks or notations mentioned in Item “c” hereof indicating that there were no sufficient funds in or credit with such bank for the payment in full of such check, if such be the fact. The bank shall also indicate  receipt of a stop payment order. e. A check and other clearing item (COCI) dishonored by reason of insufficiency of funds or credit shall be returned by the drawee bank to the negotiating bank not later than the next clearing for returned COCI.  (1) For Local Exchanges There shall be two (2) separate clearing windows for COCIs returned due to insufficient funds or credit in the local exchanges in the integrated Metro Manila area served by the PCHC and the BSP  Regional Clearing Centers (RCCs). (The settlement of interbank transactions vis-à- vis covering reserve requirement/ deficiency of banks’ demand deposit account (DDA) is shown in Appendix 39.) (a) AM Returned COCI Clearing - The AM returned COCI clearing in the integrated Metro Manila local exchange shall be conducted from 7:30 AM to 10:00 AM on the banking day immediately following the original date of presentation  of the COCI to PCHC. The AM returned COCI clearing window for local exchanges in the BSP RCCs shall be conducted from 8:00 AM to 9:30 AM on the banking day immediately following the original date of presentation of the COCI to the RCC. Returned COCI in the AM clearing  windows shall be given value on the same date as the date of original presentation of the COCI to PCHC and RCC. The amount of debits and credits on the date of original presentation shall be reversed to the extent of the amount of credits and debits arising from the returned COCI. The process  restores the balances of the demand deposits of banks with the BSP to their position prior to the settlement of the clearing results affected by the COCI later returned due to insufficient funds or credit. (b) PM Returned COCI Clearing - The PM returned COCI clearing window shall coincide with the afternoon regular clearing. Other dishonored COCI not returned in the morning clearing session  shall be presented by the drawee bank to the negotiating bank in the afternoon regular clearing. Such returned COCI shall be given value on the date the returned COCI was presented to PCHC for the integrated Metro Manila area and to BSP RCCs.  Return of Dishonored COCI - A COCI dishonored by reason of insufficiency of funds or credit shall be returned by the drawee bank to the negotiating bank not later than the next clearing for returned COCI.  (2) For Out-of-town Exchanges For out-of-town exchanges, a COCI so dishonored shall be returned by the drawee bank to the negotiating bank within the period specified in the clearing Circular Letters issued by BSP.  (3) COCI not coursed through the Clearing System A COCI dishonored by reason of  insufficiency of funds or credit which was not coursed through the clearing system shall be returned by the drawee bank to the holder or the negotiating bank, as the case may be, not later than the business day following the date the COCI is presented for payment with the drawee bank. The negotiating bank shall, in turn, return a COCI dishonored by reason of insufficiency of funds or credit to the holder not later than the business day following its receipt of the dishonored COCI from the drawee bank.
Current Account Conditons - a. It shall be the responsibility of the bank concerned to identify the officers, employees, departments or units with direct involvement in its demand deposit operations and/or deposit records; b. The opening of current accounts of officers and employees shall be subject to approval of the head of the branches  department or any designated higher ranking officer; and c. The following minimum operating control measures shall be implemented to  ensure systems integrity and mitigate technology-related risks: (1) Tagging of accounts. Savings and demand deposits of officers and employees, their spouses and relatives within the second degree of consanguinity and affinity,  including partnerships, associations orcorporations in which such officers and  employees, their spouses and relatives within the second degree of consanguinity and affinity, individually or as a group, own or control at least a majority of the capital shall be tagged in the bank’s current accounts/savings accounts (CA/SA) system; (2) Monitoring of accounts. All  accounts maintained by officers, employees and said relatives including their business interests shall be monitored by a designated officer who shall be responsible for ensuring that accounts of officers and staff are properly maintained. Any irregularity in the account activity shall  be promptly investigated and reported to the appropriate management level; (3) Access controls. Access to all data, application software, operating systems and utilities must be restricted to authorized persons through appropriate identification mechanisms and access codes and such  authentication and authorization controlsmust be fully documented and auditable.  No officer or employee, regardless of rank or position, shall be allowed to process any transaction from initiation to final authorization; (4) Data capture. Operating procedures for data capture, update and retrieval must be strictly adhered to. The operating system shall maintain a permanent  record of each authenticated user session including every user input; and (5) Audit trails. Detailed records and audit trails shall be maintained to substantiate the processing of all transactions. Audit trails must be reviewed periodically by a designated officer commensurate with the  risk level of the information system. The review process must ensure that the reviewer does not review his/her own activity.
Drawings Against Uncollected Deposits - Drawings Against Uncollected Deposits The following regulations shall govern temporary overdrawings and drawings against uncollected deposits (DAUDs). a. Temporary overdrawings. Temporary overdrawings against current account shall not be allowed, unless caused by normal bank charges and other fees incidental to handling such accounts. Banks which violate these regulations shall be subject to a fine of one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) per day of violation, computed on the basis of the amount of overdrawing or fines in amounts as may be determined by the Monetary Board, but not to exceed P30,000 a day for each violation, whichever is lower. Technical overdrawings arising from “force posting” in-clearing checks shall be debited by banks under “Returned Checks and Other Cash Items Not in Process of  Collection” which is part of “Other Assets” in the Statement of Condition. Items to be lodged under this account shall consist only of in-clearing checks which may result in “technical overdrawn” accounts and shall be immediately reversed the following day. The checks lodged under “Returned Checks, etc.” shall either be returned or honored the following day before clearing. The items to be used as cover for the honored checks should only consist of any  of the following: (1) Cash (2) Cashier’s, Manager’s or Certified Checks (3) Bank Drafts (4) Postal Money Orders (5) Treasury Warrants (6) Duly funded “On us” Checks (7) Fund transfers/credit memos within the same bank representing proceeds of loans granted under existing regulations. Peso demand deposit accounts maintained by foreign correspondent banks with commercial banks shall not be subject to the above-mentioned regulations: Provided, That: (a) The maintenance of non-resident correspondent bank’s peso checking accounts and overdrawings therefrom are covered by reciprocal arrangement; (b) Temporary overdrawings are covered within fifteen (15) days from the  date overdrawings are incurred; and (c) Such accounts are credited only through foreign exchange inward remittance. b. Drawings against uncollected deposits. DAUDs shall be prohibited except when the drawings are made  against uncollected deposits representing manager’s/cashier’s/treasurer’s checks, treasury warrants, postal money orders and duly funded “on us” checks which may be permitted at the discretion of each bank.
Prerequisites to accept or create demand deposits for Thrift Banks/ Rural Banks/Cooperative Banks. In addition to the Standard Pre-qualification Requirements for the Grant of Banking Authorities enumerated in Appendix 5, a TB/RB/Coop Bank applying for authority to accept or create demand deposits shall also comply with the following requirements: a. The applicant TB must have complied with the minimum capital required under Subsecs. X106.1 and X106.2. In the case of RB/Coop Bank, it must  have net assets of at least P5.0 million: Provided, That RBs which have been authorized to accept or create demand deposits prior to the approval of R.A. No. 7353 (Rural Banks Act of 1992) shall be allowed to continue servicing such deposits. The terms capital and net assets shall have the same meaning as in Sec. X106.  b. It must be a member of the Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC) in good standing.
Requirements for accepting demand deposits. After a TB’s/RB’s/Coop Bank’s application to accept demand deposits has been approved, it may actually accept such deposits, subject to the following conditions: a. Submission of a certification signed by the President/Chairman of the Board of the bank stating that the requirements enumerated under Subsec. X201.1 have been complied with up to the day before the checking account services are actually offered/extended to the public; b. That if it is not a member of the Philippine Clearing House Corporation (PCHC), it has appointed a commercial  bank, or a normally operating thrift bank which is a direct participant in clearing with the PCHC/BSP and has complied with the minimum capital required for commercial banks, thru which it shall participate in the check clearing system; and c. That it has complied with all other conditions that the BSP may impose. The applicant bank shall submit a  written notice to the appropriate supervising and examining department of the BSP of the actual date when the demand deposit service is offered to the public not later than ten (10) banking days from such offering of the service.
Sanctions - If any part of the certification submitted by the bank as required in these guidelines is found to be false, the following sanctions shall be imposed, without prejudice to the sanctions under Section 35 of R.A. No. 7653. a. On the Bank  Suspension of its authority to accept or create demand deposits for one (1) year. b. On the Certifying Officer A fine of P5,000 per day from the time the certification was made up to the time the certification was found to be false.