Director Sanctions. Without prejudice  to the other sanctions prescribed under Section 37 of R.A. No. 7653 and to the provisions of Section 16 of R.A. No. 8791, any director of a bank who violates or fails to observe and/or perform any of the above responsibilities and duties shall for each violation or offense, be penalized as follows:  For directors of Amount UBs/KBs P 30,000 TBs/IBs 15,000 RBs/Coop Banks (national) 5,000 Coop Banks (local) 1,000
Directors shall include: (1) directors who are named as such in the articles of incorporation; (2) directors duly elected in subsequent meetings of the stockholders; and (3) those elected to fill vacancies in the board of directors.  b. Limits on the number of the members of the board of directors. Pursuant to Sections 15 and 17 of R.A. No. 8791, there shall be at least five (5), and a maximum of fifteen (15) members of the board ofdirectors of a bank at least two (2) of whom shall be independent directors: Provided, That in case of a bank/quasi-bank/trust entity merger or consolidation, the number of directors may be increased up to twentyone (21)
General responsibility of the board of directors. The position of a bank director is a position of trust. A director assumes certain responsibilities to different constituencies or stakeholders, i.e., the bank itself, its stockholders, its depositors and other creditors, its management and employees, and the public at large. These constituencies or stakeholders have the right to expect that the institution is being run in a prudent and sound manner. The board of directors is primarily responsible for the corporate governance of the bank. To ensure good governance of the bank, the board of directors should establish strategic objectives, policies and procedures that will guide and direct the activities of the bank and the means to attain the same as well as the mechanism for monitoring management’s performance. While the management of the day-to-day affairs of the institution is the responsibility of the management team, the board of directors is, however, responsible for monitoring and overseeing management action.
An independent director - An independent director shall mean a person who – (1) Is not or has not been an officer or employee of the bank, its subsidiaries or affiliates or related interests during the past three (3) years counted from the date of his election; (2) Is not a director or officer of the related companies of the institution’s majority stockholder; (3) Is not a majority stockholder of the  institution, any of its related companies, orof its majority shareholders;  (4) Is not a relative within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, legitimate or common-law of any director, officer or majority shareholder of the bank or any of its related companies; (5) Is not acting as a nominee or representative of any director or substantial shareholder of the bank, any of its related  companies or any of its substantial shareholders; and, (6) Is not retained as professional adviser, consultant, agent or counsel of the institution, any of its related companies or any of its substantial shareholders, either in his personal capacity or through his firm; is independent of management and free from any business  or other relationship, has not engaged and does not engage in any transaction with the institution or with any of its related companies or with any of its substantial shareholders, whether by himself or with other persons or through a firm of which he is a partner or a company of which he is a director or substantial shareholder, other than transactions which are conducted at arms  length and could not materially interfere with or influence the exercise of his judgment. An independent director of a bank can be elected as an independent director of its: (a) parent or holding company; (b) subsidiary or affiliate; (c) substantial  shareholder; or (d) other related companies, or vice-versa: Provided, That he is not a substantial shareholder of the bank or any of the said concerned entities
Interlocking directorships While concurrent directorship may be the least prejudicial of the various relationship cited in this Section to the interests of the FIs involved, certain measures are still necessary to safeguard against the disadvantages that could result from indiscriminate concurrent directorship. (1) Except as may be authorized by the  Monetary Board or as otherwise provided hereunder, there shall be no concurrent directorships between banks or between a bank and a QB. (2) Without the need for prior approval  of the Monetary Board, concurrent directorships between entities not involving an investment house shall be allowed in the following cases: (a) Banks not belonging to the same category: Provided, That not more than one  (1) Bank shall have quasi-banking functions; (b) A bank and an NBFI;  (c) A bank without quasi-banking functions and a QB; and (d) A bank and one (1) or more of its subsidiary bank/s, QB/s and NBFI/s. For purposes of the foregoing, a husband and his wife shall be considered as one (1) person.
Permanently disqualified Directors- a. Permanently disqualified Directors/officers/employees permanently disqualified by the Monetary Board from holding a director position: (1) Persons who have been convicted by final judgment of a court for offenses involving dishonesty or breach of trust such as, but not limited to, estafa, embezzlement, extortion, forgery, malversation, swindling, theft, robbery, falsification, bribery, violation of B.P. Blg. 22, violation of AntiGraft and Corrupt Practices Act and  prohibited acts and transactions under Section 7 of R.A. No. 6713 (Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees); (2) Persons who have been convicted by final judgment of a court sentencing them to serve a maximum term of imprisonment of more than six (6) years; (3) Persons who have been convicted by final judgment of the court for violation of banking laws, rules and regulations; (4) Persons who have been judicially declared insolvent, spendthrift or incapacitated to contract;  (5) Directors, officers or employees of closed banks who were found to be culpable for such institution’s closure as determined by the Monetary Board; (6) Directors and officers of banks found by the Monetary Board as administratively liable for violation of banking laws, rules and regulations where a penalty of removal from office is imposed, and which finding of the Monetary Board has become final and executory; or (7) Directors and officers of banks or  any person found by the Monetary Board to be unfit for the position of directors or officers because they were found administratively liable by another government agency for violation of banking laws, rules and regulations or any offense/ violation involving dishonesty or breach of  trust, and which finding of said government agency has become final and executory.
Qualification - A director shall have the following minimum qualifications: a. He shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age at the time of his election or appointment;  b. He shall be at least a college graduate or have at least five (5) years experience in business; c. He must have attended a special seminar on corporate governance for board of directors conducted or accredited by the BSP: Provided, That incumbent directors as well as those elected after 17 September 2001  must attend said seminar on or before 30 June 2003 or within a period of six (6) months from date of election for those elected after 30 June 2003, as the case may be; and d. He must be fit and proper for the  position of a director of the bank. In determining whether a person is fit and proper for the position of a director, the following matters must be considered: integrity/probity, competence, education, diligence and experience/training
Responsibilities - (1) To select and appoint officers who are qualified to administer the bank’s affairs effectively and soundly and to establish adequate selection process for all personnel. It is the primary responsibility of the board of directors to appoint competent management team at all times. The board of directors should apply fit and proper standards on key personnel.  Integrity, technical expertise and experience in the institution’s business, either current or planned, should be the key  considerations in the selection process. And because mutual trust and a close working relationship are important, the board’s choice should share its general operating philosophy and vision for the institution. The board of directors shall establish an appropriate compensation  package for all personnel which shall be consistent with the interest of all stakeholders (2) To establish objectives and draw up a business strategy for achieving them. Consistent with the institution’s objectives, business plans should be established to direct its on-going activities. The board  should ensure that performance against plan is regularly reviewed, with corrective action taken as needed. (3) To conduct the affairs of the institution with high degree of integrity. Since reputation is a very valuable asset, it is in the institution’s best interest that in dealings with the public, it observes a high  standard of integrity. The board of directors should prescribe corporate values, codes of conduct and other standards of appropriate behaviour for itself, the senior management and other employees. Among others,  activities and transactions that could result or potentially result in conflict of interest, personal gain at the expense of the  institution, or unethical conduct shall be strictly prohibited. It should provide policies that will prevent the use of the facilities of the bank in furtherance of criminal and  other illegal activities. (4) To establish and ensure compliance with sound written policies. The board should adopt written policies on all major business activities, i.e., investments, loans, asset and liability management, business planning and budgeting. A mechanism to ensure compliance with said policies shall also be  provided. (5) To prescribe a clear assignment of responsibilities and decision-making authorities, incorporating a hierarchy of required approvals from individuals to the board of directors. The board should establish in writing the limits of the discretionary powers of each officer,  committee, sub-committee and such other group for the purpose of lending, investing or committing the bank to any financial undertaking or exposure to risk at any time. The board should have a schedule of matters and authorities reserved to it for decision, such as: major capital  expenditures, equity investments and divestments. (6) To effectively supervise the bank’s affairs. The board of directors should establish a system of checks and balances which applies in the first instance to the board itself. Among the members of the board, an effective system of checks and balances must exist. The system should also provide a mechanism for effective  check and control by the board over the chief executive officer and key managers and by the latter over the line officers of the bank. (7) To monitor, assess and control the performance of management. The board shall put in place an appropriate reporting system so that it is provided with relevant  and timely information to be able to effectively assess the performance of management. For this purpose, it may constitute a governance committee. (8) To adopt and maintain adequate risk management policy. The board of  directors shall be responsible for the formulation and maintenance of written policies and procedures relating to the management of risks throughout the institution. The risk management policy shall include: (a) a comprehensive risk management approach; (b) a detailed structure of limits, guidelines and other parameters used to govern risk-taking; (c) a clear delineation of lines of responsibilities for managing risk; (d) an adequate system for measuring  risk; and (e) effective internal controls and a comprehensive risk-reporting process. The board may constitute a committee  for this purpose. (9) To meet regularly. To properly discharge its function, the board of directors shall meet regularly. Independent views in board meetings shall be given full consideration and all such meetings shall be duly minuted. (10) To keep the individual members of  the board and the shareholders informed. It is the duty of the board to present to all its members and to the shareholders a balanced and understandable assessment of the bank’s performance and financial condition. It should also provide appropriate information that flows  internally and to the public. All members of the board shall have reasonable access to any information about the institution. (11) To ensure that the bank has beneficial influence on the economy. The board has a continuing responsibility to provide those services and facilities which will be supportive of the national economy. (12) To assess at least annually its performance and effectiveness as a body, as well as its various committees, the chief executive officer and the bank itself. The composition of the board shall also be reviewed regularly with the end in view of having a balanced membership. Towards this end, a system and procedure for evaluation shall be adopted which may include, but not limited to, the setting of  benchmark and peer group analysis.
Temporarily disqualified Directors/officers/employees disqualified by the Monetary Board from holding a director position for a specific/ indefinite period of time. Included are: (1) Persons who refuse to fully disclose the extent of their business interest or any material information to the appropriate department of the SES when required pursuant to a provision of law or of a circular, memorandum, rule or regulation of the BSP. This disqualification shall be in effect as long as the refusal persists; (2) Directors who have been absent or who have not participated for whatever reasons in more than fifty percent (50%) of all meetings, both regular and special, of the board of directors during their incumbency, and directors who failed to physically attend for whatever reasons in at least twenty-five percent (25%) of all board meetings in any year, except that when a notarized certification executed by the corporate secretary has been submitted attesting that said directors were given the agenda materials prior to the meeting and that their comments/decisions thereon were submitted for deliberation/discussion and were taken up in the actual board meeting, said directors shall be considered present in the board meeting. This disqualification applies only for purposes of the immediately succeeding election;  (3) Persons who are delinquent in the payment of their obligations as defined hereunder: (a) Delinquency in the payment of obligations means that an obligation of a person with a bank where he/she is a director or officer, or at least two (2) obligations with other banks/FIs, under different credit lines or loan contracts, are past due pursuant to Sec. X306; (b) Obligations shall include all borrowings from a bank obtained by: (i) A director or officer for his own account or as the representative or agent  of others or where he/she acts as a guarantor, endorser or surety for loans from such FIs; (ii) The spouse or child under the parental authority of the director or officer; (iii)Any person whose borrowings or loan proceeds were credited to the account of, or used for the benefit of a  director or officer;(iv)A partnership of which a director  or officer, or his/her spouse is the managing partner or a general partner owning a controlling interest in the partnership; and (v) A corporation, association or firm wholly-owned or majority of the capital of which is owned by any or a group of  persons mentioned in the foregoing Items “(i)”, “(ii)” and “(iv)”; This disqualification shall be in effect as long as the delinquency persists.  (4) Persons who have been convicted by a court for offenses involving dishonesty or breach of trust such as, but not limited to, estafa, embezzlement, extortion, forgery, malversation, swindling, theft, robbery, falsification, bribery, violation of B.P. Blg. 22, violation of AntiGraft and Corrupt Practices Act and  prohibited acts and transactions under Section 7 of R.A. No. 6713, violation of banking laws, rules and regulations or those sentenced to serve a maximum term of imprisonment of more than six (6) years but whose conviction has not yet become final and executory;  (5) Directors and officers of closed banks pending their clearance by the Monetary Board; (6) Directors disqualified for failure to observe/discharge their duties and responsibilities prescribed under existing regulations. This disqualification applies  until the lapse of the specific period of disqualification or upon approval by the Monetary Board on recommendation by the appropriate department of the SES of such directors’ election/reelection;  (7) Directors who failed to attend the special seminar for board of directors required under Item “c” of Subsec. X141.2. This disqualification applies until the director concerned had attended such seminar;  (8) Persons dismissed/terminated from employment for cause. This disqualification shall be in effect until they have cleared themselves of involvement in the alleged irregularity or upon clearance, on their request, from the Monetary Board after showing good and justifiable reasons, or after the lapse of five (5) years from the time they were officially advised by the  ppropriate department of the SES of their disqualification; (9) Those under preventive suspension; (10) Persons with derogatory records as  certified by, or on the official files of, the judiciary, NBI, Philippine National Police (PNP), quasi-judicial bodies, other government agencies, international police, monetary authorities and similar agencies or authorities of foreign countries for  irregularities or violations of any law, rules and regulations that would adversely affect the integrity of the director/officer or the ability to effectively discharge his duties. This disqualification applies until  they have cleared themselves of the alleged irregularities/violations or after a lapse of five (5) years from the time the complaint, which was the basis of the derogatory record, was initiated; (11) Directors and officers of banks found by the Monetary Board as  administratively liable for violation of banking laws, rules and regulations where a penalty of removal from office is imposed, and which finding of the Monetary Board is pending appeal before the appellate court, unless execution or enforcement thereof is restrained by the  court;