fractional shares - Issuance of fractional shares Whenever the declaration of stock dividend results in the issuance of fractional shares, banks may observe the following guidelines: a. The amount corresponding to the fraction should be given in the form of cash dividend; and b. The certificate of stock issued  should be in whole numbers, and the fractional shares shall be issued in the form of scrip certificates. In no case shall the certificate of stock be issued including such fractional share. The scrip certificate is temporary in nature and should be redeemed in cash when the bank is in a position to do so, or stockholders holding such scrip certificates may negotiate with other stockholders for the purchase or sale  of such shares to convert them into full shares, subject to the limitations on stockholdings as provided by law.
Dividends on government shares a. Held prior to 09 June 1992. Whenever dividends of not less than fourteen percent (14%) are declared on common stock, government preferred stock shall be entitled to a cash dividend not to exceed two percent (2%) of total outstanding preferred stock. Should the dividends declared on common stock be  less than fourteen percent (14%), the dividend on preferred stock shall be proportionately reduced. b. Held on or after 09 June 1992. Shares held by the LBP, DBP, or by any government-owned or-controlled bank or FI shall share in dividend distributions from the date of issuance in the amount of four  percent (4%) on the first and second years; six percent (6%) on the third and fourth years; eight percent (8%) on the fifth and sixth years; ten percent (10%) on the seventh and eighth years; and twelve percent (12%) on the ninth to the fifteenth years, which shall be cumulative: Provided, That the RB and the government-owned or-controlled bank are not precluded from entering into an agreement providing for rates of dividends other than those prescribed by law.
Coop Banks - (1) Interest on share capital - (a) Interest on share capital shall be declared only upon compliance with the requirements prescribed under Item “a” above. (b) Government preferred shares shall be entitled to interest as enumerated in Subsec. 3137.1: Provided, That no cumulative interest shall be allowed for any kind or class of share issued by the Coop Bank. Unless otherwise provided for in the bylaws of the Coop Bank, the share capital  shall earn interest at the rate computed as follows: Rate of Interest = X (Net Surplus less Statutory Reserves) ÷ (Total Average Share Month) where: (i) “X“ shall be a percentage to be  determined by the board of directors  allocated for interest on share capital;  and (ii) “Statutory Reserves” shall refer to Article 87 of R.A. No. 6938. No allocation of interest on share capital shall be made without the approval of the general assembly which may increase or decrease any or both. (2) Patronage refund - (a) The amount allocated for patronage refund shall not be less than thirty percent (30%) of the net surplus after deducting the statutory reserves based on the principle of equity; (b) The rate of patronage refund shall not be more than twice the rate of interest on share capital; (c) The sum allocated for patronage refunds shall be made available at the same rate to all cooperative patrons of the Coop Bank in proportion to their individual patronage: Provided, That -   (i) In the case of a cooperative member patron with paid-up share capital contribution, its proportionate amount of patronage refund shall be paid unless it agrees to credit the amount to its account as additional share capital contribution;  (ii) In the case of a cooperative member patron with unpaid share capital  contribution, its proportionate amount of patronage refund shall be credited to its share capital contribution; (iii) In the case of a non-member patron, its proportionate amount of patronage refund shall be set aside in a general fund for such patrons and shall be allocated to non-member patrons only upon request and presentation of evidence of the amount of its patronage. The amount so allocated shall  be credited to such patron toward payment of the minimum capital contribution for membership. When a sum equal to this amount has accumulated at any time within a period specified in the by-laws, such patron shall be deemed and become a member of the Coop Bank if it so agrees or requests and complies with the provisions of  the by-laws for admission to membership; and (iv) If within any period of time specified in the by-laws, any subscriber who has not fully paid his subscribed share capital or any non-member patron which has accumulated the sum necessary for membership but does not request nor agree to become a member or fails to comply with the provision of the by-laws for admission to membership, the amount so accumulated  or credited to their account together with any part of the general fund for nonmember patrons shall be credited to the reserve fund or to the education and training fund of the Coop Bank.
Limitations/Amount Available on Dividends Declared by Rural Banks The following rules shall also govern the declaration of dividends by RBs. a. RBs. In addition to the requirements prescribed in Sec. X136, an RB may declare cash dividends only if the amount of its reserve for retirement of government preferred stock is at least equal to the amount which should have been accumulated had the bank transferred annually to the reserve account from its undivided profits an amount equal to at least an average of one-tenth (1/10) of the  total amount of preferred stock. In no case shall cash dividends be declared whenever any of the following circumstances is present: (i) Arrearages in its obligations with the BSP amount to P1.0 million or more unless covered by an approved plan of payment which is being fully complied with: Provided, however, That cash dividends  shall not exceed ten percent (10%) per annum; or (ii) Past due loans comprise twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the total loan portfolio at any time during the last six (6)  months prior to the dividend declaration
The net amount available for dividends shall be the amount of unrestricted or free earned surplus and undivided profits less: a. Bad debts against which valuation reserves are not required by the BSP to be set up; b. Unbooked valuation reserves, and  other unbooked capital adjustments required by the BSP, whether or not allowed to be set up on a staggered basis; c. Deferred income tax; d. Accumulated profits not yet received but already recorded by a bank representing its share in profits of its subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting; e. Accrued interest as required to be excluded pursuant to Item “d” of Subsec. X305.4, net of booked valuation reserves on accrued interest receivable or allowance for uncollectible interest on loans; and f. Foreign exchange profit arising from  revaluation of foreign exchange denominated accounts. For purposes of this Subsec., any balance of Paid-in Surplus account may be included in the amount available for stock dividends
The liability for dividends declared shall be taken up in the books upon receipt of BSP approval thereof, or if no such approval is received, after thirty (30) banking/business days from the date the required report on dividend declaration was received by the appropriate department of the SES , whichever comes earlier. A memorandum entry may be made to record the dividend declaration on the date of approval by the board of directors and for full disclosure purposes, the  dividends declared may be disclosed in the financial statements by means of a footnote which should include a statement to the  effect that the dividend declaration is subject to review by the BSP. Dividends of all kinds, whether on common or on preferred shares of stock, should not be treated as interest expense, considering that as a general policy, only irredeemable stock may be issued by banks.
Declaration of dividends shall be reported by the bank concerned to the appropriate department of the SES in the prescribed form within the deadline indicated in Appendix 6. Pending verification of abovementioned report by the appropriate department of the SES, the bank concerned shall not make any announcement or communication on the declaration of dividends nor shall any payment be made thereon. Banks, however, whose shares are listed with any domestic stock exchange may declare dividends and give immediate notice of such declaration to the SEC and the stock exchanges, in compliance with pertinent rules of SEC: Provided, That no  record date is fixed for such dividend pending verification of the report on such declaration by the appropriate department of the SES. In any case, the declaration may be announced and the dividends paid, if after thirty (30) banking days from the date the report required herein shall have been received by the BSP, no advice against  such declaration has been received by the bank concerned.
 At the time of declaration, banks shall have complied with the following: a. Clearing account with the BSP is not overdrawn; b. Liquidity floor requirement for government funds; c. Minimum capitalization requirement and risk-based capital ratio; d. Prescribed EFCDU/FCDU cover consisting of: (1) Thirty percent (30%) liquidity cover; and (2) 100% asset cover. e. Statutory and liquidity reserves requirement; f. No past due loans or  accommodations with the BSP or with any institution; g. No net losses from operations in any one (1) of the two (2) fiscal years immediately preceding the date of dividend declaration; h. Has not committed any of the following major violations: (1) Loans and other credit accommodations and guarantees granted in excess of the single borrower’s limit; (2) Loans and other credit accommodations granted/extended in excess of the ceilings on accommodations to DOSRI; (3) Unsafe and unsound banking practice  as defined under existing BSP regulations; (4) Equity investments in excess of the prescribed ceilings; (5) Investments in real estate, bank premises and equipment in excess of prescribed ceilings; (6) Major violations/exceptions cited in the previous examination not duly acted upon or not yet corrected;  (7) Transactions or activities without prior approval or necessary license from the BSP such as, but not limited to, derivatives, trust and e-banking;  affairs of the institution or any willful making of a false or misleading statement  to the Monetary Board or to the appropriate department of the SES; and (9) Failure to comply with the capital build-up program approved by the Monetary Board. On the other hand, banks which have committed any of the major violations under Item “h” above may only be allowed to declare dividends by the Monetary Board  upon recommendation of the appropriate department of the SES that the bank has corrected the major violation/s that it has committed.