ATM Features:
Use the ‘Banking' option on State Bank ATMs and enjoy a host of services:
Use the ‘Transfer option on State Bank ATMs and avail of:
Use the ‘Services' option on State Bank ATMs and avail of:
Use the ‘Mobile Registration' option on State Bank ATMs to:
You can also create a Term Deposit using our ATMs. Just click the ‘TDR/STDR' option:
Minimum amount of Rs. 10,000/- (valid in singly owned accounts only)
Cash Withdrawal The most popular service on our ATMs enables customers to withdraw up to a daily limit of Rs. 40,000/- (limit on Classic Debit Card. Higher value cards permit daily withdrawal limits of up to Rs. 1 lakh per day)
Fast Cash A service which enables you to withdraw your preferred amounts with just a touch. The options in the denomination of 100, 200, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 5000, 10,000 are available.
Pin Change Use this service to change your password at regular intervals.
Balance Enquiry Expecting an inflow of funds in your account? Use this service to check the current available balance in your account. This service is also available on the main option screen after swiping your card. You can also ‘Go Green' by selecting the view option as the balance is displayed on the screen else get a transaction receipt by selecting print.
Ministatement Keep track of the transactions in your account by availing this service. Mini-statement gives you an insight into the last 10 transactions in your account.
Card to Card Transfer Send cash in a flash from one SBI Debit Card to the other. Using this free and easy service, you can transfer up to Rs.40,000/- per day instantly to your loved ones. There is no limit on number of transactions. The limit of Rs.40,000/- per day will be common across the C2C and Card to Account facility. All you need is your SBI debit card, your pin and the beneficiary's debit card number.
Credit Card Payment (Visa) Use this service to pay the bill of any Visa credit card.
Credit Card Payment Make a paperless payment of your SBI credit card bill.
SBI Life Premium Payment Pay your SBI Life insurance premium payment using any of our ATMs.
Mobile Top-up Talk non-stop and recharge your mobile prepaid connection from any of our 43000+ ATMs. A popular service amongst customers, it ensures you never run out of time to catch up with your dear ones over the mobile network.
Cheque Book Request Order your cheque book without visiting the branch or filling in any transaction slips. Remember to update your registered address in the branch as the cheque book will be delivered at the address registered in the branch.
Trust Donation Make a donation to your favourite charity. For example, (a) Vaishno Devi (b) Shirdi Saibaba (c) Gurudwara Takht Saheb, Nanded (d) Tirupati (e) Sri Jagannath Temple, Puri (f) Palani, Tamil Nadu (g) Kanchi Kamakoti Petam, Tamil Nadu (h) Ramakrishna Mission, Kolkata (i) Mantralaya, Andhra Pradesh (j) Kashi Vishwanath, Banaras (k) Tulja Bhavani, Mumbai (l) Mahalakshmi, Mumbai and many more.
Bill payment Use our ATMs to pay your utility bills viz. Bangalore/Hubli/Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company, Karnataka and Chattisgarh State Electricity Board.
Mobile Banking Registration Register/Deregister your mobile banking application using our ATMs.
Inter-mobile Mobile Payment System You can register for the IMPS service at all our ATMs. This service allows you to transfer money to any other person with a registered IMPS number instantly.
