Accounting. The foreign currency deposits and their corresponding cover shall be considered as funds separate and distinct from the regular assets and liabilities of the authorized banks. Authorized banks shall maintain a separate accounting for transactions covered by these rules that will enable preparation of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statement covering said funds. For purposes of preparing the FCDU/ EFCDU financial statements, the bank shall use the US dollar (USD) as its functional currency. However, for purposes of consolidating the FCDU/ EFCDU financial statements with the RBU financial statements, these shall be translated into the presentation currency, i.e., Philippine Peso (Php).
Authorized transactions - a. Banks which are granted a certificate of authority to operate an FCDU are authorized to engage in the following transactions in any acceptable foreign currency: (1) Accept deposits and trust accounts from residents and non-residents;  (2) Deposit, regardless of maturity, with foreign banks abroad, OBUs and other FCDUs/EFCDUs; (3) Invest in readily marketable foreign currency denominated debt instruments. For this purpose, readily marketable debt instruments shall refer to debt instruments that are quoted in an active market and the quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis; (4) Grant short-term foreign currency loans as may be allowed by BSP regulations;  (5) Borrow, (a) regardless of maturity, from EFCDUs, foreign banks abroad and OBUs, subject to existing rules on foreign/ foreign currency borrowings; and (b) on short-term maturity, from other FCDUs; (6) Engage in foreign currency-foreign currency swap with the BSP, OBUs and other FCDUs/EFCDUs;  (7) Engage in securities lending activities as lender (8) Engage in repo agreements involving foreign currency denominated government securities subject to the provisions in Sec. X532; (9) Purchase foreign currency denominated government securities under resale agreements from other banks’ EFCDU/FCDU, non-resident FIs and OBUs, subject to the following conditions:  (a) That the government securities purchased shall be limited to those issued by central governments and/or central banks of foreign countries with the highest credit quality given by any two (2) internationally accepted rating agencies (i.e., currently the equivalent  of Standard and Poor’s AA- or Moody’s Aa3 or better); (b) That for TBs which are granted a certificate of authority to operate an FCDU, the maximum term of the resale agreements shall be one (1) year; and (c) That such government securities purchased under resale agreements shall  be classified as “Trading Account Securities - Loans” and booked under the sub-account “Government Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements – EFCDU/FCDU”; (10) Issue HT1 capital instruments; and (11) Engage in US dollar denominated  repo agreements with the BSP, as provided under Subsec. X601.1. RBs/Coop Banks which are authorized to operate FCDUs shall be governed by the provisions of Circular 1389 dated 13 April 1993, as amended, and by all existing regulations applicable to FCDUs. They may undertake all transactions which TBs  with FCDUs are authorized to enter into, except the granting of loans to producers/ manufacturers, including oil companies and public utility concerns.  b. UBs/KBs which are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may engage in the following transactions in any acceptable foreign currency: (1) Accept deposits and trust accounts  from residents and non-residents; (2) Deposit with foreign banks abroad, OBUs and other FCDUs/EFCDUs; (3) Invest in foreign currencydenominated debt instruments; (4) Grant foreign currency loans as may be allowed by the BSP; (5) Borrow from other FCDUs/ EFCDUs and from non-residents and OBUs, subject to existing rules on foreign  borrowings; (6) Engage in foreign currency-foreign currency swap;  (7) Engage in foreign exchange trading and, with prior BSP approval, engage in financial futures and options trading; (8) On request/instructions of its foreign correspondent bank: (a) issue letters of credit for a  non-resident importer in favor of a non-resident exporter; (b) pay, accept or negotiate drafts/ bills of exchange drawn under the letter of credit; and  (c) make payment to the order of the non-resident exporter: Provided, That the foreign correspondent bank shall deposit sufficient foreign exchange with the EFCDU issuing the letter of credit to cover all drawings;  (9) Engage in direct purchase of exportbills of resident exporters, subject to the  following conditions: (a) Export transactions covered by usance or sight letters of credit shall be  allowed to be purchased by EFCDUs; and (b) Export bills negotiated/purchased by the bank’s Regular Unit and outstanding in its books shall not be allowed to be purchased by its EFCDU;  (10)Engage in securities lending activities as lender subject to the provisions in Sec. X531; (11)Engage in repo agreements involving foreign currency denominated
Foreign currency cover requirements. Depository banks under the foreign currency deposit and expanded foreign currency deposit systems shall maintain at all times a 100% cover for their foreign currency liabilities, except US dollar denominated repo agreements with the BSP: Provided, That violation of the terms and conditions of the US dollar denominated repo agreements facility shall subject the borrowings of the bank to the FCDU/EFCDU asset and liquid asset cover  equirements. For purposes of complying with this requirement, the principal offices  in the Philippines of the authorized banksand all its branches located therein shall be considered as a single unit. The foreign currency cover shall consist of the net carrying amount of the following: a. For banks authorized to operate an FCDU - (1) Foreign currency cash on hand; (2) Foreign currency checks and other cash items; (3) Due from BSP – Foreign Currency; (4) Due from other banks (other FCDUs/ EFCDUs, OBUs, and non-resident banks); (5) Derivatives with Positive Fair Value Held for Trading and/or Hedging  (Derivatives with Negative Fair Value Held for Trading and/or Hedging shall require corresponding asset/liquid asset cover); (6) Investments in readily marketable foreign currency-denominated debt instruments, booked under the following control accounts: (a) Held for Trading (HFT); (b) Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (DFVPL); (c) Available for Sale (ASS); and  (d) Held to Maturity (HTM). Foreign currency-denominated debt securities sold/lent in repo agreements/ securities lending and borrowing transactions  shall be considered as eligible asset cover for the 100% asset cover requirement. The same treatment shall likewise apply to foreign currency denominated debt securities used as additional collateral in repo agreements or as collateral by  borrowing bank in securities lending and borrowing transactions; (7) Foreign currency loans and receivables maturing within one (1) year  authorized by the BSP, booked under the following: (a) Loans to BSP; (b) Interbank loans receivable; and (c) Loans and receivables – others. Loans and receivables authorized by the BSP shall refer to those granted pursuant  to Circular No. 1389 dated 13 April 1993, as amended, and shall include the following: (a) those with specific approval by the BSP under Section 23 of Circular No. 1389, as amended (Loans Requiring Prior BSP Approval);  (b) those short term loans to resident private and public sector borrowers which under existing regulations require no prior BSP approval but allowed to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system (i.e., loans to commodity  and service exporters, indirect exporters, producers/manufacturers, including oil companies and public utility concerns) under Section 24.4 of Circular No. 1389, as amended, (Loans Not Requiring Prior BSP Approval); and (c) those loans to resident private sector borrowers to be serviced using foreign  exchange purchased from outside of the banking system under Section 24.1.a of Circular No. 1389, as amended: Provided, That all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with including single borrower’s limit as  provided in Sec. X303; (8) Loans and receivables arising from repo agreements, certificates of assignment/ participation with recourse, and securities lending and borrowing transactions, maturing within one (1) year; (9) Foreign currency accrued interest  income from financial assets; (10) Accounts receivable arising from sale of financial assets under the trade date accounting pending actual settlement/ delivery of the underlying securities; (Accounts payable arising from the  purchase of financial assets under the trade date accounting pending actual settlement/ receipt of the underlying securities shall require corresponding asset/liquid asset cover); (11) Loans to RBU [net of transactions outstanding for more than one (1) year]:  Provided, That the conditions under Item “(c)" of Subsec. X501.3 are complied with; (12) Receivable from the RBU book arising from the exercise of warrants paired with ROP Global Bond Holdings in the FCDU/EFCDU book: Provided, That it  shall be settled by the RBU book to the FCDU/EFCDU book within six (6) months from the date of receipt of the Exchange Securities; and (13) Such other assets as may be determined by the Monetary Board as  eligible asset cover. b. For banks authorized to operate an EFCDU - The foregoing accounts, regardless of maturity, and in the case of investment in foreign currency denominated debt instruments (including debt instruments  booked under Unquoted Debt Securities Classified as Loans and investments in structured products), regardless of maturity and marketability, shall all be considered as eligible asset cover. Loans to resident  private and public sector borrowers which under Section 24.4 of Circular No. 1389, as amended, require no prior BSP approval and allowed to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking  system (i.e., loans to commodity and service exporters, indirect exporters, producers/manufacturers, including oil companies and public utility concerns) shall however have short-term maturity. In addition, the following shall also be considered as eligible asset cover:  (1) Loans and receivables granted by EFCDU pursuant to Section 24 of Circular No. 1389 dated 13 April 1993, as amended, i.e., those loans of non-residents from EFCDUs, to be serviced using foreign  exchange purchased from outside the banking system under Section 24.1.b of Circular No. 1389, as amended: Provided, That all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with including single borrower’s limit as provided in  Sec. X303; (2) Outstanding export bills purchased in the EFCDU books, booked under the following control accounts: (a) Interbank loans receivable - if  without recourse; and (b) Loans and receivables – others - if with recourse.
Insurance coverage Foreign currency deposits shall be insured under the provisions of R.A. No. 3591, as amended. Depositors are entitled to receive payment in the same currency in which the insured deposits are denominated.
Mobile foreign exchange booths. Without prior authority from the BSP, banks may operate mobile foreign currency booths, subject to the following guidelines: a. The bank shall advise the BSP of the number of mobile foreign currency booths it will operate, the date it will start operations, the areas of operation and the branch where the foreign exchange acquisition will be turned over and booked; b. The services of the mobile foreign currency booths shall be solely for changing foreign exchange currency into peso notes and coins, and not pesos to other foreign currency; c. The mobile foreign currency booths shall not accept deposit or perform other banking functions other than purchase of foreign currencies; d. The internal control system of the proposed mobile foreign currency booths shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES, as well as other security measures adopted therein; and e. The mobile foreign currency booths shall be covered by insurance to  protect adequately the bank against losses of whatever nature arising from its operations
Qualification requirements a. KBs/UBs may be authorized to operate an FCDU or EFCDU: Provided, That they meet the minimum capital requirements as prescribed under Sec. X106 and Subsecs. X106.1 and X106.2, and in the case of branches of foreign banks, Subsecs. X121.4 and X121.5. b. TBs with net worth or combined capital accounts of at least P325.0 million if located in Metro Manila or P52.0 million if located outside Metro Manila may, subject to prior Monetary Board approval, operate an FCDU. A TB desiring to operate an FCDU shall file an application  with the appropriate department of the SES. The application shall be signed by the bank president or officer of equivalent rank and shall be accompanied by the following  documents: (1) Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the application. (2) A certification signed by the president or the officer of equivalent rank  that the bank has complied with all conditions/prerequisites for the grant of authority to operate an FCDU in Appendix 5a. Transitory provisions. TBs authorized  to operate and are actually operating anFCDU are hereby given a period of two  (2) years reckoned from 07 March 2002 within which to comply with the minimum capital requirements for FCDU: Provided, That this requirement may be substituted by a capital build-up program for a period of not more than five (5) years or only up  to 31 December 2007 and which must be approved by the Monetary Board: Provided, further, That annual cash infusion shall be included in the capital build-up program adopted for this purpose. The amount of cash infusion shall be evenly distributed over the capital build-up program period. Banks which failed to comply with the required capitalization upon expiration of said two (2)-year period  given them or those which failed to comply with approved capital build-up program shall liquidate their FCDU business within one (1) year and shall surrender to the BSP their corresponding FCDU licenses. The license of TBs already authorized to operate FCDU  but not yet operating the same shall be automatically revoked if they do not comply with the above minimum capital requirements as of 07 May 2002. In addition, the standard pre-qualification  requirements prescribed under Appendix 5 shall be complied with by a bank applying for an FCDU/EFCDU license. c. RBs/Coop Banks may, subject to  prior Monetary Board approval, be authorized to operate an FCDU: Provided, That they meet the minimum capital under Subsec. X151.3 or P20.0 million, whichever is higher. An RB/Coop Bank desiring to operate an FCDU shall file an application with the appropriate department of the SES. The application  shall be signed by the bank president or officer of equivalent rank and shall be accompanied by the following documents: (1) Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the application. (2) Certification signed by the  president or the officer of equivalent rank that the bank has complied with all the conditions/prerequisites for the grant of authority to operate an FCDU in  Appendix 5a. In addition to requirements under existing regulations, an RB/Coop Bank authorized to operate an FCDU shall: (a) Have the capacity to operate an FCDU. An RB/Coop Bank may, however, upgrade its capacity by appointing as officer who will be in-charge of the FCDU  operations either, (i) an individual with actual experience in another bank as in-charge or assistant in-charge of the same operations for at least one (1) year, or (ii) an individual who has attended a specialized training course on FCDU  transactions or operations conducted by the BSP Institute or an institution or bank duly accredited by the BSP; and  (b) Establish a risk management system appropriate to its operations, characterized by clear delineation of responsibility for risk management, adequate risk measurement system, appropriately structured risk limits, effective internal control system and  complete, timely and efficient risk  reporting system.
Other Transactions in Foreign Currency. All categories of banks duly licensed by the BSP (including RBs/Coop Banks) are considered authorized agent banks (AABs) and therefore, can, subject to compliance with the provisions of Circular No. 1389 dated 13 April 1993, as amended, buy and sell foreign exchange (FX) from the public even without an FCDU license and prior BSP approval. They are likewise required to comply with the requirements under Sec. X691,  articularly on the “Know Your Customer” KYC) rules, record keeping and reporting of covered and suspicious transactions. The operation of mobile foreign currency booths and off-site automatic multi-currency money changers (OAMMC) shall be governed by this Section.