Applicability to Philippine corporations a. Any right, privilege or incentive granted to foreign banks or their subsidiaries or affiliates under R.A. No. 7721 shall be equally enjoyed by, and extended under the same conditions to, domestic banks. b. Philippine corporations, whose shares of stocks are listed in the PSE, or which are of long standing for at least ten (10) years, as determined by the Monetary Board, shall have the right to acquire, purchase or own up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank:  Provided, That said corporations, as well as foreign banks may own up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of only one (1) domestic bank
Composition of capital accounts; compliance with capital ratios a. Foreign bank branches shall comply with the same capital ratios applicable to domestic banks of the same category. b. For Philippine branches of foreign banks, the term capital shall include permanently assigned capital which shall be inwardly remitted and converted to Philippine currency and Net due to up to an amount prescribed under Subsec. X121.6. Should there be any Net due from head office, branches, subsidiaries and other offices outside the Philippines, the same shall be deducted from the capital accounts for purposes of determining compliance with the required capital ratios.  c. Earnings not remitted to the head office shall constitute part of the Net due to of the local branch of a foreign bank: provided, That said bank may elect to consider such earnings as part of the assigned capital, in which case said earnings may no longer be remittable to the head office. d. The term Net due to shall be net of: (1) unbooked valuation reserves and other capital adjustments as may be required by the BSP; (2) total outstanding unsecured credit accommodations, both direct and indirect, to DOSRI; and (3) deferred income tax. e. Where a foreign bank has more than one (1) branch or banking office in the Philippines, all its branches and banking offices shall be treated as a unit for purpose of determining compliance with the legal reserve requirement and with capital requirement prescribed in laws/regulations.
Capital requirements a. For locally incorporated subsidiaries - The minimum capital required for locally incorporated subsidiaries of foreign banks shall be the same as that prescribed by the Monetary Board for domestic banks of the same category. b. For foreign bank branches with full banking authority - A foreign bank authorized to establish branches with full banking authority in the Philippines shall inwardly remit and convert into Philippine currency, as permanently assigned capital, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of P210.0 million at the exchange rate prevailing on 05 June 1994 (the date of effectivity of R.A. No.  7721), i.e., P26.979 to US$1. The foreign bank shall thereby be entitled to establish three (3) branches in locations of its choice. For purposes of this Subsection, the same foreign bank may open three (3) additional branches in locations designated by the Monetary Board by inwardly remitting and converting into Philippine currency, as additional permanently  assigned capital the U.S. Dollar equivalent of P35.0 million for every additional branch, computed at the same exchange rate of P26.979 to US$1. The Monetary Board, in determining the location of the  next three (3) branches established pursuant to the provisions of R.A. No. 7721, shall consider, among other things, development requirements of a region and the contribution of a bank branch may make  to regional development, expansion of basic financial services and enhanced access to credit by small and medium-scale enterprises: Provided, That the total number of branches for each new foreign bank  entrant shall not exceed six (6). c. For foreign banks with existing branches in the Philippines - (1) A foreign bank with existing branch or branches in the Philippines upon the  effectivity of R.A. No. 7721 shall comply with the required permanently assigned capital by inwardly remitting and converting into Philippine currency the U.S. Dollar equivalent of P210.0 million computed at the same exchange rate of P26.979 to US$1,  within a period of one and one-half (1½) years from 05 June1994. The said foreign bank may establish up  to six (6) branches in addition to its branch or branches existing as 05 June1994, the first three (3) additional branches in locations of its choice, and the next three  (3) additional branches in locations designated by the Monetary Board: Provided, That upon establishing any additional branch, the bank shall comply immediately with the permanently assigned  capital mentioned in the next preceding paragraph: Provided, further, That the said permanently assigned capital shall be the capital for the bank’s first three (3) additional branches, including its existing branch or branches, and for each branch established in addition thereto, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of P35 million computed at the same exchange rate of P26.979 to US$1, shall be inwardly remitted and converted into Philippine currency. If the permanently assigned capital of the existing branch/es of said foreign bank that has been converted to Philippine currency is sufficient to cover the abovementioned amount of assigned capital required for the additional branches, no additional assigned capital shall be required; otherwise, the foreign bank shall comply immediately with the capital requirements under the above paragraphs. (2) Foreign banks with existing branches in the Philippines on 5 June1994  shall have a period of one and one-half (1½) years from said date within which to comply with the ratio between the assigned capital and the Net due to head office, branches, subsidiaries and offices outside the Philippines prescribed in Subsec. X121.6: Provided, That upon establishing any additional branch pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the bank shall comply immediately with the aforesaid ratio. d. Capital of Foreign Bank Branch Authorized to Operate as Expanded Commercial Bank - The capital of a Philippine branch of a foreign bank which is authorized to operate as a UB may consist of its permanently assigned capital plus the Net due to account: Provided, That at no time shall the aggregate of said accounts fall below the amount required for UB authority under Subsecs. X106.1 and X106.2: Provided, further, That the amount of the Net due to which may be added to permanently assigned capital shall not exceed the equivalent of three (3) times the amount of the permanently assigned capital. The Net due to as described in the preceding paragraph shall be net of the items enumerated in Subsec. X121.5d. e. Applicable Exchange Rate - It is  understood that the exchange rate of P26.979 to US$1 mentioned hereinabove is applicable only to the minimum capital requirements provided in Items b and c of this Subsection. For other purposes, the exchange rate prevailing at the time of remittance shall be applicable.
Scope of authority for locally incorporated subsidiaries of foreign banks as well as branches with full banking authority. Subsidiaries and branches of foreign banks established under Subsec. X121.1 shall be allowed to perform the same functions and enjoy the same privileges of, and be subject to the same limitations imposed upon, a Philippine bank of the same category. Privileges shall include the eligibility to operate under an expanded commercial banking authority subject to compliance with existing rules and regulations and the guidelines enumerated in Appendix 3 on the  matter: Provided, That foreign bank branches authorized to operate under an expanded commercial banking authority shall be exempted from the requirement of publicly offering at least ten percent (10%) of its shares.  The limitations include, among other things, the single borrower's limit, the capital-to-risk assets ratio, and the capitalization and other requirements under R.A. No. 337, as  amended, and other related laws.
Qualification requirements a. Investment in an existing domestic bank. A foreign bank seeking to acquire, purchase or own up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank needs only to meet the selection criteria under Subsec. X121.3. b. Establishment of subsidiary or branch. Any foreign bank seeking to  establish a new banking subsidiary or to establish branches with full banking authority, in addition to satisfying the criteria prescribed Subsec. X121.3, must be -  Qualification requirements a. Investment in an existing domestic bank. A foreign bank seeking to acquire, purchase or own up to sixty  percent (60%) of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank needs only to meet the selection criteria under Subsec. X121.3. b. Establishment of subsidiary or branch. Any foreign bank seeking to establish a new banking subsidiary or to establish branches with full banking authority, in addition to satisfying the criteria prescribed  Subsec. X121.3, must be - (1) Widely-owned and publicly-listed (listed in any stock exchange authorized by the government of the country of origin), unless more than fifty percent (50%) of the capital stock of said foreign bank applicant is owned by the government of its country of origin. The bank is considered as widely-owned if it has at least fifty (50) stockholders without any stockholder owning more than fifteen  percent (15%) of its capital stock: Provided, That if the bank is owned/ controlled by a holding company, this requirement shall apply to the holding company; and (2) Among the top 150 banks in the world or the top five (5) banks in its country of origin. The determination of the top 150 banks in the world may be based on lists prepared and published by reputable organizations/publications. The determination of the top five (5) banks in the country of origin shall be based on information supplied by the bank  supervisory authorities in which country of origin as to the ranking of banks based  on net worth. However, the Monetary Board may also use total assets as a criterion: Provided, That the same shall be based on book accounts only and on the consolidated balance sheet of the head office and all branches, excluding subsidiaries and affiliates.  In addition to the foregoing requirements, the foreign bank applicant must be in compliance with capital  requirements as prescribed by the laws and regulations of its country of origin.
Limitations- a. Limit on mode of entry for each foreign bank - A foreign bank may avail itself of only one (1) mode of entry provided under Items "a" to "c" of Subsec. X121.1: Provided, That entry pursuant thereto shall not preclude investment in the equity of a domestic bank pursuant to the provisions of R.A. No. 337, as amended. A foreign bank that comes in via the establishment of branches under R.A. No. 7721 may still invest in the equity of a domestic bank subject to the provisions of R.A. No. 337, as amended.  b. Limit on the number of foreign banks which may be allowed to establish branches. The Monetary Board may authorize up to six (6) new foreign banks to establish branches. However, upon recommendation of the Monetary Board, the President of the Republic of the Philippines may approve, as the national interest may require, four (4) additional new foreign banks to establish branches, subject  to compliance with provisions of this Section. c. Limit on the period for entry through establishment of branches. Foreign banks shall be allowed entry under Item “c” of Subsec. X121.1 by establishing branches with full banking authority within five (5) years from 05 June 1994. The entry of  foreign banks through the establishment of a new banking subsidiary and through investment in existing domestic banks shall not be subject to any time limitation. d. Control of the resources of the  anking system. The Monetary Board shall adopt such measures as may be necessary to ensure that at all times the control of seventy percent (70%) of the resources or assets of the entire banking system is held by domestic banks more than fifty percent  (50%) of the subscribed capital of which is owned by Filipinos. Said measures may include review of, among other things, the existing policies on - (i) the granting of authority to establish additional subsidiaries and branches; (ii) the granting of authority to (a)  engage in expanded commercial banking and trust activities; (b) open an FCDU; (c) collect taxes and customs duties; and (d) invest in the equity of other entities; and (iii) access to rediscounting facilities.
Change from one mode of entry to another a. As a general rule, a foreign bank which has been authorized to operate in the Philippines through any one (1) of the allowable modes of entry may change to another mode by giving up the first mode it availed of. b. A foreign bank which pursuant to Items “a” and “b” of Subsec. X121.1, has established or acquired a banking subsidiary may sell its stockholdings therein and may apply for authority to establish a branch subject to the provisions of Subsec. X121.9c and to the following conditions: (i) that the disposition/sale of its stockholdings in the subsidiary is done within five (5) years from 5 June 1994; (ii) that the foreign bank qualifies under the provisions of Subsec. X121.2b; and (iii) that the limit of ten (10) foreign banks establishing branches as a mode of  entry has not yet been reached. c. Foreign banks with existing branches in the Philippines, as well as those that may be allowed to establish branches under R.A. No. 7721, may incorporate under Philippine laws, in which case said foreign banks may own up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of the new bank.
Guidelines for selection The following factors shall be considered in selecting the foreign bank which will be allowed to invest in majority of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank or to establish a subsidiary or branch in the Philippines. a. Geographic representation and complementation. Representation from  the different parts of the world and/or the international financial centers shall be ensured. b. Strategic trade and investment relationships between the Philippines and  the country of incorporation of the foreign bank. Consideration shall be given to the countries of origin of applicant foreign banks- (1) With substantial financial assistance to, and loans and investments, past and present, in the Philippines; and (2) With which the Philippines has  significant volume of trade especially to those with which the country has substantial net exports. c. Relationship between the applicant bank and the Philippines. Consideration shall be given to the  capability of the foreign bank to promote trade with, and to bring foreign investments into, the Philippines. Long standing financial and commercial relationship with, and assistance extended to, the Philippines, shall likewise be taken into account.  d. Demonstrated capacity, globalreputation for financial innovations and stability in a competitive environment of  the applicant. Demonstrated capacity and stability may be indicated by the fact that the applicant ranks among the top 150 in the world or top five (5) in its country of origin. Global reputation may be  measured by international presence, e.g., number of branches with full banking authority outside of its country of origin. e. Reciprocity rights enjoyed by Philippine banks in the applicant’s country. Philippine banks shall enjoy reciprocity rights in the applicant's country.  f. Willingness to fully share technology. The applicant bank shall submit an undertaking to this effect together with its application.
Listing of shares with the Philippine Stock Exchange. At least ten percent (10%) of the capital of banks in which foreign banks have invested under Subsec. X121.1a and b, shall be listed in the PSE within a reasonable period of time after the investment is made as may be determined by the Monetary Board