Compliance risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or non conformance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of the bank’s clients may be ambiguous or untested. Compliance risk exposes the institution to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to a diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, lessened expansion potential, and the lack of contract enforceability. Compliance risk may arise in many different ways. For example, it may arise when a bank fails to comply with applicable disclosure requirements or when it discloses information to outside party that it is required  to keep confidential. Compliance risk also may arise when a bank does not have systems in place to ensure compliance with mandatory reporting statutes. The use of technology to automate lending decisions also could expose a bank to compliance risks if the programs are not properly tested or if the quality of the data is not verified. For example, the use of credit scoring models to automate lending decisions could expose a bank to compliance risk if the data upon which the program rely are flawed or if the program design itself is flawed.  As banks move increasingly from paper to electronic-based transactions and information exchanges, they need to  consider how laws designed for paperbased transactions apply to electronic-based transaction and information exchanges.  Some new technologies raise unexpected compliance issues. Transactions conducted through the internet also can raise novel questions regarding jurisdictional authority over those transactions. Therefore, banks should be careful to monitor and respond to changes to relevant laws and regulations arising from these developments
Operational risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from problems with service or product delivery. This risk is a function of internal controls, information systems, employee integrity, and operating processes. Operational risk exists in all products and services. Technology can give rise to operational risk in many ways. Operational risk often results from deficiencies in system design, implementation, or ongoing maintenance of systems or equipment. For example, incompatible internal and external systems  and incompatible equipment and software xpose a bank to operational risk. Operational risk can increase when a bank hires outside contractors to design products, services, delivery channels, and processes that do not fit with the bank’s systems or  customer demands. Similarly, when a bankuses vendors to perform core bank functions,  such as loan underwriting and credit scoring, and does not have adequate controls in place to monitor the activities of those vendors, operational risk may increase. Also, when banks merge with other banks or acquire new businesses, the bank’s combined computer systems may produce inaccurate or incomplete information or  otherwise fail to work properly. The failure to establish adequate security measures, contingency plans, testing, and auditing standards also increases operational risk.
Reputation risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from negative public opinion. This affects the institution’s ability to establish new relationships or services, or to continue servicing existing relationships. This risk can expose the institution to litigation, financial loss, or damage to its reputation. Reputation risk exposure is present throughout the organization and that is why banks have the responsibility to exercise an abundance of  caution in dealing with its customers and community. This risk is present in activities such as asset management and regulatory compliance. Reputation risk arises whenever technology-based banking products, services, delivery channels, or processes may generate adverse public opinion such that it seriously affects a bank’s earnings or impairs capital. Examples may include: flawed security systems that significantly compromise customer privacy; inadequate contingency and business resumption plans that affect a bank’s ability to maintain or resume operations and to provide customer services following system failures; fraud that fundamentally undermines public trust; and large-scale litigation that exposes a bank to significant liability and results in severe damage to a bank’s reputation. Adverse  public opinion may create a lasting, negative public image of overall bank operations and thus impair a bank’s ability to establish and  maintain customer and business relationships
Strategic risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. This risk is a function of the compatibility of an organization’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation. The resources needed to carry out business strategies are both tangible and intangible. They include communication channels, operating systems, delivery networks, and managerial capacities and capabilities. Use of technology can create strategic risk when management does not adequately plan for, manage, and monitor the performance of technology-related products, services, processes, and delivery channels. Strategic risk may arise if management fails to understand, support, or use technology that is essential for the bank to compete or if it depends on a technology that is not reliable. In seeking ways to control strategic risk, a bank should consider its overall business environment, including: the knowledge and skills of senior management and technical staff; its existing and planned resources; its ability to understand and support its technologies; the activities and plans of suppliers of technologyand their ability to support the technology; and the anticipated life cycle of technology related products and services.