Confirmation of accounts At least once a year, the internal auditing staff shall confirm by direct verification with bank clients, the following: a. Balances of loans and credit accommodations of borrowers; b. Deposit account balances particularly new deposit accounts, inactive or dormant accounts and closed accounts; c. Outstanding balances of borrowings and other liabilities; and d. Outstanding balances of  receivables/payables.
dormant or inactive accounts - Definition of dormant or inactive accounts (1) Current or checking accounts showing no activity (deposit or withdrawals) for a period of one (1) year. (2) Savings account showing no activity (deposit or withdrawals) for a period of two (2) years.
c. Internal control measures (1) As a matter of policy, banks shall exert all efforts to prevent checking and savings accounts from becoming dormant. When it becomes apparent that an account is inactive, a short letter should be sent to the depositor encouraging him to use his account.  In case of checking accounts, the banks shall ensure that the monthly statement of accounts reach the depositors. If the depositors cannot be located, the following steps should be undertaken: (a) Check any significant changes or fluctuations in the depositors’ account balances over a period of time with emphasis on accounts with decreasing balances; (b) Verify apparent reactivation entries,  represented either by deposit or withdrawal, that appears to have prevented the account from being classified as dormant; and (c) Investigate any obvious alteration of the ledger records. (2) Segregated dormant accounts shall  be placed under joint custody of two (2) responsible officers/employees. (3) A separate ledger control for dormant accounts shall be maintained. (4) Signature cards for dormant accounts shall also be segregated from active files and held under joint custody. (5) Entries to dormant account ledgers shall be verified and approved by a designated officer. His initials shall be  placed next to the entry on the ledger sheet.  (6) All inquiries on dormant accounts shall be coursed to one officer who shouldobtain sufficient identification from the inquirer to assure that he is entitled to the information. (7) A trial balance of dormant account ledgers shall be taken periodically and balances with the general control account by an employee other than the bookkeeper.  (8) Dormant or inactive accounts shall be verified directly with depositors. (9) All transactions affecting dormant accounts shall be subject to audit by the  internal auditor. (10) A semestral report on deposit accounts transferred to dormant shall be rendered to bank management.
a. Dual control shall mean the work of one (1) person is to be verified by a second person to ensure that the transaction is properly authorized, recorded and settled. b. The routine and completion of each transaction shall involve at least two (2) or more individuals. c. Except as herein provided, the following accounts/transactions shall be under dual control: (1) Cashier's/manager's checks,  telegraphic transfers (TTs) and electronic fund transfer system (EFTS) - The signature of at least two (2) officers should be required in the issuance of cashier’s/manager’s checks and payment orders (incoming and outgoing) of TTs and EFTS. The board of  directors may, however, prescribe a predetermined amount by which one (1) senior officer can sign checks or payment  orders, subject to appropriate control  measures. (2) Certificates of Time Deposit - The board of directors of a bank is given the discretion to determine the number of signatories for the issuance of certificates of time deposit (CTDs). For this purpose, all banks shall submit to the appropriate SED of the BSP their respective internal control measures for the issuance of CTDs, the minimum of which shall include the following activities: (a) Joint custody of un issued CTD forms; (b) Accounting for all issued/cancelled CTDs; (c) Signature requirement for the  issuance of CTDs;(d) Counter checking of issued CTDsagainst the tellers’ proof sheets/validatedslips; and(e) Recording of CTD transactions.Any change in the internal control measures shall be submitted to the appropriate SED of the BSP not later than thirty (30) days prior to the implementation. For newly established banks, the requirement shall be submitted not later than a month from the start of banking operations. (3) Bank Drafts - The signature of two  (2) authorized officers should be required in the issuance of bank draft. (4) Borrowings - The signature of at least two (2) authorized officers should be required. (5) All transactions giving rise to Due to or Due from accounts and all instruments of remittances evidencing these transactions  particularly those involving substantiale approved by two (2)authorized officers.
Independence of the internal auditor a. The by-laws shall provide for the position of internal auditor together with the duties and responsibilities, scope and objectives of internal auditing. b. The internal auditor shall report directly to the board of directors or to an audit committee composed of directors who do not hold executive positions in the bank. c. The internal auditor shall not install nor develop procedures, prepare records or engage in other activities which he normally reviews or appraises.
a. Joint custody shall mean the processing of transactions in the presence of and under the direct observation of a second person. Both persons shall be equally accountable for the physical protection of the items and records involved. b. Physical protection shall be deemed established through the use of two (2) locks or combinations on a file chest or vault  ompartment. c. Two (2) or more persons shall be assigned to each half of the control so that operating efficiency is not impaired if one (1) person is not immediately available. d. Persons who are related to each other within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity shall not be made joint custodians. e. The following shall be under joint custody:  (1) Cash in vault and in ATM cash dispensers; (2) All accountable forms; (3) Collaterals; (4) Securities; (5) Documents of title and/or ownership of properties or fixed assets; (6) Dormant or inactive deposit  ledgers/EDP print-outs and corresponding signature cards including on-line posting of dormant/inactive accounts; (7) Import documents; (8) Trust receipts; (9) Collection items; (10) Duplicate keys, safe deposit spare locks and keys, and keys to unrented safe deposit boxes; (11) Safekeeping items; (12) Vault door and safe combinations; (13) Unissued specimen signature books; (14) Correspondent’s and bank’s own telegraphic and/or electronic fund transfer system or cable test keys currently in use; (15) Test key fixed numbers unissued; (16) Unissued and captured ATM cards and similar devices;  (17) Access locks and keys to on-line EDP terminals and similar devices; and (18) Access locks and keys to EDP mainframes and peripherals.
Number control a. Sequence number controls shall be incorporated in the accounting system and should be used in registering notes, in issuing official checks and in other similar situations. Bank management shall designate a person who is detached from the banking operations involved to monitor said sequence number controls. b. The following are the forms, instruments and accounts that shall be number-controlled: (1) Bank drafts; (2) Manager’s and cashier’s checks; (3) Promissory notes; (4) Savings deposit accounts; (5) Demand deposit accounts; (6) CTDs; (7) Letters of credit; (8) Collection items;  (9) Official and provisional receipts; (10) Certificates of stocks;(11) Loan accounts;  (12) Expense vouchers; (13) Payment orders (incoming and outgoing ) of TTs and EFTS;(14) Transfer requests through EFTS  involving bank’s accounts abroad; (15) EDP batch transmittal slips of documents; and (16) Due to/from head office/branches tickets.
Rotation of duties a. The duties of personnel handling cash, securities and bookkeeping records shall be rotated. b. Rotation assignment shall be irregular, unannounced and long enough to permit disclosure of any irregularities or manipulations. c. Tellers/cashiers shall be temporarily relieved of their duties during the actual count of their cash accountabilities by BSP examiners or by  internal/external auditors.