Consolidation – is the union of two (2) or more corporations into a single new corporation, called the consolidated corporation, all the constituent corporations thereby ceasing to exist as separate entities. The consolidated corporation shall thereupon and thereafter possess all the rights, privileges, immunities, franchises and properties, and assume all the liabilities and obligations of each of the constituent corporations in the same manner as if it had  itself incurred such liabilities or obligations
Merger - is the absorption of one (1)or more corporations by another existing corporation, which retains its identity and takes over the rights, privileges, franchises, and properties, and assumes all the liabilities and obligations of the absorbed corporation(s) in the same manner as if it had itself incurred such liabilities or obligations. The absorbing corporation continues its existence while the life or lives of the other corporation(s) is/are terminated 
In pursuance of the policy to promote mergers and consolidations among banks and other financial intermediaries as a means to develop larger and stronger FIs, constituent entities may, subject to BSP approval, avail themselves of any or all of the following incentives: a. Revaluation of premises, improvements and equipment of the institutions: Provided, That such revaluation shall be based on fair valuation of the property conducted by a reputable appraisal company which shall be subject to review and approval by the BSP. b. Unbooked valuation reserves based upon the BSP examination and other capital adjustments resulting from the merger or consolidation may be booked on staggered basis over a maximum period of five (5) years. c. Exemption from the forty percent  (40%) and sixty percent (60%) ownership limits prescribed in Subsec. X126.1 in the new or surviving institution of any Filipino individual or domestic non-bank corporation: Provided, That this shall be allowed only if the bank that is being merged is distressed as may be determined by the Monetary Board and such merger is for the purpose of rehabilitating the bank: Provided, further, That whenever any of said stockholders exceed the prescribed limits, his holdings shall not be increased, but may be reduced and once reduced,  shall not thereafter be increased beyond such limits. In the case of purchase or acquisitionof majority or all of the outstanding shares of a bank/QB by another bank/QB, the  revaluation of the assets and the booking of the required valuation reserves based upon examination by the BSP over a period of five (5) years shall be allowed only if such purchase or acquisition is for the purpose of rehabilitating the former bank/QB: Provided, That the revaluation of assets and staggered booking of valuation reserves shall be allowed in full only if both banks/QBs belong to the same category. Otherwise, only the bank/QB being acquired/rehabilitated shall be allowed to recognize in full the appraisal increment resulting from revaluation of assets and to book valuation reserves on a staggered basis, while in the case of the acquiring bank/QB, the appraisal  increment resulting from revaluation of assets and the privilege of staggered booking of valuation reserves shall each be limited to the amount of the total resources of the bank/QB being acquired/ rehabilitated.  The exemption from the ownership limits prescribed in Subsec. X126.1 on existing stockholdings of any Filipino individual or domestic non-bank corporation in a banking institution, as an incentive to purchase or acquisition of majority or all of the outstanding shares of  stock of bank/QB shall be allowed only if the bank being purchased or acquired is distressed as may be determined by the Monetary Board and such merger is for the purpose of rehabilitating the bank/QB. d. If by reason of merger or consolidation, the resulting bank is unable to comply fully with the prescribed net worth-to-risk assets ratio, the Monetary  Board may, at its discretion, temporarily relieve the bank from full compliance with this requirement under such conditions as it may prescribe; The recognition of goodwill as an incentive to mergers or consolidations shall only be allowed subject to the conditions  in Item "a (4)". e. (Deleted by Circular 494 dated 20 September 2005); f. Conversion or upgrading of the existing head offices, branches and/or other offices of the merged or absorbed institutions into branches of the new or surviving financial institutions; g. Condonation of liquidated damages  and/or penalties on loan arrearages to the BSP of RBs which are parties to the merger or consolidation: Provided, That loan arrearages of RBs to the BSP are paid in full or covered by a plan of payment  payable on an equal monthly amortization schedule over a period not exceeding ten (10) years; h. Relocation of branches/offices may be allowed within one (1) year from date of merger or consolidation in cases where the merger or consolidation resulted in  duplication of branches/offices in a service area, or in such other cases/circumstances as may be prescribed by the Monetary Board; i. Outstanding penalties in legal reserve deficiencies and interest on overdrafts with the BSP as of the date of the merger or consolidation may be paid in installments over a period of one (1) year; j. Rediscount ceiling of 150% of adjusted capital accounts for a period of one  (1) year, reckoned from the date of merger or consolidation: Provided, That the merged/consolidated bank meets the required net worth-to-risk assets ratio and all of the other requirements for rediscounting; k. UBs/KBs whose total outstanding  real estate loans exceed twenty percent (20%) of total loan portfolio may be given a period of one (1) year within which to comply with the prescribed twenty percent (20%) ratio reckoned from the date of  merger or consolidation; l. Restructuring/plan of payment of past due obligations of the proponents with the BSP as of the date of merger/ consolidation over a period not exceeding ten (10) years;  m. In the case of RBs, grant of access to the rediscounting window of the BSP for a period of two (2) years from the date of merger or consolidation even if its past due ratio exceeds twenty five percent (25%) of  loan portfolio but not exceeding thirty percent (30%): Provided, That the merged/ consolidated bank meets all the other requirements. During said period of two (2) years, its rediscounting limit per application may also be increased to an amount  equivalent to the total of the rediscounting limit per application of each of the constituent banks before merger or consolidation; n. Subject to approval of the Monetary Board concurrent officerships between a merged or consolidated bank/financial institution and another bank/financial institution may be allowed;  Likewise, with prior approval of the Monetary Board, concurrent directorships may be allowed in cases where a bank acquires shares of stock of another bank for the purpose of merging or consolidating the two (2) banks regardless of whether the banks belong to the same category or both have quasi-banking functions; o. Subject to other requirements on the establishment of branches, the merged/ consolidated RBs may be allowed to  establish a branch each in Cebu City and Davao City if it has put up the minimum capital requirement for these places; p. Grant of automatic extension of five  (5) years for retirement of government preferred shares to be reckoned from the date of merger or consolidation; q. Training of officers and staff of the merging or consolidating RBs by the BSP; and r. Any right or privilege granted a  merging bank under a rehabilitation program previously approved by the Monetary Board or under any special authority granted by the Monetary Board shall continue to be in effect.  The revaluation of assets and staggered booking of valuation reserves shall be available for a period of two (2) years from 19 February1999 while the rest of the incentives enumerated under Sec. X112 shall be available for a period of three (3) years from 31 August 1998.  The foregoing incentives may also be granted in cases of purchases or acquisitions of majority or all of the outstanding shares of stock of a bank/QB
As a general rule, the ratio of exchange of shares between or among the participants in a bank merger or consolidation shall be based on mutual agreement of the parties concerned. However, any appraisal increment reserve (revaluation reserve) arising from the revaluation of the fixed assets, as may be agreed upon by the parties shall be limited to premises, improvement, and equipment which are necessary for its immediate accommodation in the transaction of the bank’s business. Such evaluation should be based on fair evaluation of the property which shall be subject to review and approval by the BSP.