Penalty - 4. Minimum refers to the range of penalties to be imposed if the mitigating factor(s) outweigh the aggravating circumstances. 5. Medium refers to the penalty to be imposed in the absence of any mitigating and aggravating circumstances or if the mitigating factor(s) offset the aggravating factor(s). 6. Maximum refers to the penalty to be imposed if the aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating factor(s).  In determining the amount of penalty,a two-stage assessment shall be conducted as follows: Step 1: Determine the nature of offense whether it is: (a) Serious; (b) Less  Serious; or (c) Minor Offense; and Step 2: Determine whether there are aggravating and/or mitigating factors (as listed and defined in Annex A). Both the aggravating and mitigating factors shall be considered for initial penalty imposition and subsequent requests for reconsideration thereto. The foregoing monetary penalties shall be without prejudice to the imposition of non-monetary sanctions, if and when  deemed applicable by the Monetary Board. Violations of banking laws and Bangko Sentral regulations with specific penal clause are not covered by this Regulation.
Tpes of Offense - Serious Offense - This refers to unsafe or unsound banking practice. An unsafe or unsound practice is one (1) in which there has been some conduct, whether act or omission, which is contrary to accepted standards of prudent banking operation and may result to the exposure of the bank and its shareholders to abnormal risk or loss. (a) In determining the acts or  omissions included under the unsafe or unsound banking practice, an analysis of the impact thereof on the banks/quasibanks/trust entities’ operations and financial condition must be undertaken, including evaluation of capital position, asset condition, management, earnings posture  and liquidity position. The following circumstances shall be considered: (b) The act or omission has resulted or may result in material loss or damage, or abnormal risk or danger to the safety, stability, liquidity or solvency of the institution;  (c) The act or omission has resulted or may result in material loss or damage or abnormal risk to the institution’s depositors, creditors, investors, stockholders or to the Bangko Sentral or to the public in general; (d) The act or omission has caused any undue injury, or has given unwarranted benefits, advantage or preference to the bank or any party in the discharge by the  director or officer of his duties and responsibilities through manifest partiality, evident bad faith or gross inexcusable negligence; or (e) The act or omission involves entering into any contract or transaction manifestly and grossly disadvantageous to the bank, quasi-bank or trust entity, whether or not the director or officer  profited or will profit thereby.   2. Less Serious Offense - These include major acts or omissions defined as bank/individual’s failure to comply with the requirements of banking laws, rules and regulations, provisions of Manual of Regulations (MOR)/Circulars/ Memorandum as well as Monetary Board directives/instructions having material1/ impact on Bank’s solvency, liquidity or profitability and/or those violations classified as major offenses under the Report of Examination, except those  classified under unsafe or unsound banking practice. 3. Minor Offense - These include acts or omissions which are procedural in nature, can be corrected immediately and do not have material impact on the  solvency, liquidity and profitability of theBank. All other acts or omissions that  cannot be classified under the major offenses/violations will be classified under this category.
