concurrent officerships, including secondments, may be allowed in the following cases: (1) Between a bank and not more than two (2) of its subsidiary bank/s, QB/s, and NBFI/s, other than investment house/s; or (2) Between a bank and not more than two (2) of its subsidiary QB/s and NBFI/s; or (3) Between two (2) banks, or between a bank and a QB or an NBFI, other than an  investment house: Provided, That at leasttwenty percent (20%) of the equity of each of the banks, QBs or NBFIs is owned by a holding company or a bank/QB and the  interlocking arrangement is necessary for the holding company or the bank/QB to provide technical expertise or managerial assistance to its subsidiaries/affiliates. Aforementioned concurrent officerships may be allowed, subject to the following conditions: (a) that the positions do not involve any functional conflict of interests; (b) that any officer holding the positions  of president, chief executive officer, chief operating officer or chief financial officer or their equivalent may not be concurrently appointed to any of said positions or their equivalent; (c) that the officer involved, or his spouse or any of his relatives within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity or by legal adoption, or a corporation, association  or firm wholly- or majority-owned or controlled by such officer or his relatives enumerated above, does not own in his/its own capacity more than twenty percent (20%) of the subscribed capital stock of the entities in which the bank has equity investments; and (d) that where any of the positions involved is held on full-time basis, adequate justification shall be submitted to the Monetary Board; or (4) Concurrent officership positions in  the same capacity which do not involve management functions, i.e., internal auditor, corporate secretary, assistant corporate secretary and security officer, between a bank and one or more of its subsidiary  QB/s and NBFI/s, or between bank/s, QB/s and NBFI/s, other than investment house/s: Provided, That at least twenty percent (20%) of the equity of each of the banks, QBs and NBFIs is owned by a holding company or by any of the banks/QBs within the group.  For purposes of this Section, members of a group or committee, including subgroups or sub-committees, whose duties include functions of management such as those ordinarily performed by regular officers, shall likewise be considered as officers
Definition - Officers shall include the president, executive vice president, senior vicepresident, vice president, general manager, treasurer, secretary, trust officer and others mentioned as officers of the bank, or those whose duties as such are defined in the bylaws, or are generally known to be the officers of the bank (or any of its branches and offices other than the head office) either through announcement, representation, publication or any kind of communication made by the bank: Provided, That a person  holding the position of chairman or vicechairman of the board or another position in the board shall not be considered as an officer unless the duties of his position in the board include functions of management such as those ordinarily performed by regular officers: Provided, further, That members of a group or committee, including sub-groups or sub-committees, whose duties include functions of management such as those ordinarily performed by regular officers, and are not purely recommendatory or advisory, shall  likewise be considered as officer
Persons disqualified to become officers a. The disqualifications for directors mentioned in Subsec. X143.1 shall likewise apply to officers, except those stated in Items “b(2)” and “b(7)”. b. Except as may be authorized by the Monetary Board or the Governor, the spouse or a relative within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity of any person holding the position of chairman, president, executive vice president or any position of equivalent rank, general manager, treasurer, chief cashier or chief accountant is disqualified from holding or being elected or appointed to any of said  positions in the same bank; and the spouse or relative within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity of any person holding the position of manager, cashier, or accountant of a branch or office of a bank is disqualified from holding or being appointed to any of said positions in the same branch or office. c. In the case of UBs, KBs, and TBs, any appointive or elective official, whether  full time or part time, except in cases where such service is incident to financial assistance provided by the government or government-owned or -controlled corporations (GOCCs) or in cases allowed under existing law. d. In the case of Coop Banks, any officer or employee of CDA or any elective public official, except a barangay official. e. Except as may otherwise be allowed under Commonwealth Act No. 108, otherwise known as “The AntiDummy Law”, as amended, foreigners cannot be officers or employees of banks.
Interlocking directorships and officerships In order to prevent any conflict of interest resulting from the exercise of directorship coupled with the reinforcing influence of an officer’s decision-making and implementing powers, the following rules shall be observed: (1) Except as may be authorized by the Monetary Board or as otherwise provided hereunder, there shall be no concurrent directorship and officership between banks or between a bank and a  QB or an NBFI; and (2) Without the need for prior approval of the Monetary Board, concurrent directorship and officership between a bank and one (1) or more of its subsidiary bank/s, QB/s and NBFI/s, other than investment house/s, shall be allowed.
Interlocking officerships A concurrent officership in different FIs may present more serious problems of self dealing and conflict of interest. Multiple positions may result in poor governance or unfair competitive advantage. Considering the full-time nature of officer positions, the difficulties of serving two (2) offices at the same time, and the need for effective and efficient management, the following rules shall be observed: As a general rule, there shall be no  concurrent officerships, including secondments, between banks or, between a bank and a QB or an NBFI. For this purpose, secondment shall refer to the transfer/detachment of a person from his regular organization for temporary assignment elsewhere where the seconded employee remains the employee of the  home employer although his salaries and other remuneration may be borne by the host organization.
The appointment of officers of UBs/KBs/TBs with the rank of senior vice president (SVP) and above, whether incumbent or proposed, shall not be subject to Monetary Board approval but rather to Monetary Board confirmation. Appointment of officers below the rank of SVP shall be subject neither to Monetary Board approval nor Monetary Board confirmation. The appointment of above mentioned officers shall be deemed to have been confirmed by the BSP, if after sixty (60) banking days from receipt of the required  reports, no advice against said appointment has been received by the bank concerned
Profit sharing programs adopted in favor of directors, officers and employees shall be reflected in the by-laws of the bank, subject to the following guidelines: a. The base in any profit sharing program shall be the net income for the year of the bank as shown in its Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenses for the year, net of the following: (1) All cumulative dividends accruing to preferred stock to the extent not covered by earned surplus; (2) Accrued interest receivable credited to income but not yet collected, net of reserves already set up for uncollected interest on loans; (3) Unbooked valuation reserves on loans or the amount required to update valuation reserves in accordance with the schedule approved by the Monetary Board, as well as all amortizations due on deferred charges; (4) Provisions for current year’s taxes; (5) Income tax deferred for the year. Provided, however, That in case of reversal of deferred income taxes which were deducted from net income in computing for profit sharing of previous years, the deferred income tax reversed to expense shall be added back to net income to arrive at the base for profit sharing for the year during which the reversal is made; (6) Accumulated profits not yet received but already recorded by a bank representing its share in profits of its subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting; and b. The bank may provide in its by laws for other priorities in the computation of net profits for purposes of profit sharing: Provided, That in no case shall  profit sharing take precedence over any of the items in the preceding paragraph;  ndc. Prior approval of the MonetaryBoard shall be necessary before a bank  (20%) of the equity of each of the banks,QBs and NBFIs is owned by a holding company or by any of the banks/QBs within the group. For purposes of this Section, members of a group or committee, including subgroups or sub-committees, whose duties include functions of management such as those ordinarily performed by regular officers, shall likewise be considered as officers. It shall be the responsibility of the Corporate Governance Committee to conduct an annual performance evaluation of the board of directors and senior management. When a director or officer has  multiple positions, the Committee should determine whether or not said director or officer is able to and has been adequately carrying out his/her duties and, if necessary, recommend changes to the board based upon said performance/ review.
An officer shall have the following minimum qualifications: a. He shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age; and b. He shall be at least a college graduate, or have at least five (5) years experience in banking or trust operations or related activities or in a field related to his position and responsibilities, or have undergone training in banking or trust operations acceptable to the appropriate department of the SES: Provided, however That trust officers shall have at least two (2) years of actual experience or training in trust operations or fund management or other related fields; and  c. He must be fit and proper for the position he is being proposed/appointed to. In determining whether a person is fit and proper for a particular position, the following matters must be considered: integrity/probity, competence, education, diligence and experience/training. The foregoing qualifications for officers shall be in addition to those required or prescribed under R.A. No. 8791 and other existing applicable laws and regulations