Allowable amount of emergency loan or advance. The maximum amount of an emergency loan or advance shall be limited to the amount needed by the applicant bank to overcome the emergency or financial predicament but not to exceed the sum of fifty percent (50%) of its total deposits and deposit substitutes as of the last banking day of the month preceding the date of emergency loan application: Provided, That, in no case shall such maximum amount exceed the loan values of the collaterals submitted, as determined by the BSP. The amount approved by the Monetary Board shall be released in tranches. The first tranche shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total deposits and deposit substitutes of the bank as of the last banking day of the month preceding the date of emergency loan application and shall be released only after the submission of the collaterals and required documents under Subsecs. X272.4 and X272.5: Provided, however, That upon request of the applicant bank, the Monetary Board  may authorize a first tranche in an amount greater than twenty-five percent (25%) of the bank’s total deposits and deposit substitutes if the circumstances surrounding the emergency or financial predicament warrant the release of such greater amount and the same is adequately  secured by first class collaterals. Except as provided in Subsec. X272.7(d) hereof, the proceeds of the emergency loan or advance shall be utilized exclusively to service net withdrawals of deposits and deposit substitutes, i.e., amount of the bank’s total withdrawals less total deposits. The principal amount of the emergency loan or advance shall not exceed the difference between the highest level of the bank’s deposit and deposit substitutes of the immediately preceding thirty (30)-day period from date of emergency loan application and the current level of deposits and deposit substitutes as determined by  the appropriate department of the SES.
Authority to outsource. Only those banks with a CAMELS composite rating of at least “3” and a Management rating of not lower than “3” shall be allowed to outsource designated activities without prior Bangko Sentral approval. Otherwise, the bank must secure prior approval from the appropriate department of the SES whose evaluation will be based on the bank’s ability to manage risks attendant to outsourcing
Classifications of banks.Banks are classified into the following subject to the power of the Monetary Board to create other classes or kinds of banks: (1) Universal banks (UBs); (2) Commercial banks (KBs); (3) Thrift banks (TBs), as defined in Republic Act (R.A.) No. 7906, which shall be composed of: (a) savings and mortgage banks, (b) stock savings and loan associations, and (c) private development banks; (4) Rural banks (RBs), as defined in R. A. No. 7353; (5) Cooperative banks (Coop Banks), as defined in R. A. No. 6938; and (6) Islamic banks (IBs), as defined in R.A. No. 6848
Confidentiality of information. Banks shall keep strictly confidential the data on the borrower or consumer, except under the following circumstances: a. disclosure of information is with the consent of the borrower or consumer; b. release, submission or exchange of customer information with other financial institutions, credit information bureaus, lenders, their subsidiaries and affiliates; c. upon orders of court of competent jurisdiction or any government office or agency authorized by law, or under such conditions as may be prescribed by the Monetary Board; d. disclosure to collection agencies, counsels and other agents of the bank to enforce its rights against the borrower; e. disclosure to third party service providers solely for the purpose of assisting or rendering services to the bank in the administration of its lending business; and  f. disclosure to third parties such as insurance companies, solely for the purpose of insuring the bank from borrower default or other credit loss, and the borrower from fraud or unauthorized charges.
Default. The following shall constitute events of default which shall render the emergency loan or advance due and demandable and shall be sufficient cause for the BSP to stop further releases of funds, without prejudice to any action the BSP may decide to take in accordance with R.A. No. 7653: a. Insolvency or bankruptcy of the bank. b. Appointment of a receiver for the bank. c. The bank’s property and business is taken possession of or its business suspended or closed by the lawfully authorized governmental agency or authority. d. Violation of any of the terms and conditions of all loan and collateral documents. e. Non-compliance with the undertakings executed by the borrowing bank.
Definition of outsourcing:  Outsourcing shall refer to any contractual arrangement between a bank and a qualified service provider for the latter to perform designated activities on a continuing basis on behalf of the bank.
a. Compliance officers should review bank’s disclosure statements to determine whether they have been designed to meet the general and specific requirements set in this circular. b. For banks that advertise deposit products and services on-line, they must verify that proper advertising disclosures are made (e.g. whether the product is insured or not by the PDIC; fees and charges associated with the product or services, etc.). Advertisements should be monitored to determine whether they are current, accurate, and compliant. c. For banks that issue various products like stored value cards, ewallets, debit cards and credit cards, they must provide information to consumers  regarding the features of each of these products to enable consumers to meaningfully distinguish them. Additionally, consumers would find it beneficial to receive information about the terms and conditions associated with their usage. Example of these  disclosures include: PDIC-insured or noninsured status of the product; fees and charges associated with the purchase, use or redemption of the product; liability for loss; expiration dates, or limits on redemption; and toll-free telephone number for customer service,  malfunction and error resolution. d. Whenever e-banking services are outsourced to third parties or service providers, banks should ensure that the vendors comply with the disclosure requirements of the BSP.
Documentations. The bank should maintain necessary documentation to show that outsourcing arrangements are properly reviewed and the appropriate due diligence has been undertaken prior to implementation. The bank shall keep in its file the documents shown in Appendix 100 and the same shall be made available to authorized representatives of the Bangko Sentral for inspection 
Conditions for the grant of authority to convert into a lower category a. That the bank must have complied with the end-2000 minimum capital requirement and other laws/regulations applicable to the lower bank category into which it is converting. For this purpose, the term “capital” shall be as defined under Sec. X106; b. That the bank immediately upon receipt of notice of approval of conversion shall not engage in nor renew transactions under authorities not associated with those allowed for the lower bank category into which it is converting and within six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application for conversion, the bank shall phase-out all inherent powers and activities under special authorities not normally associated to the lower bank category into which it is converting: Provided, That a TB (previously authorized by the Monetary Board to accept demand deposits) may be allowed to retain such authority when converting into an RB but may clear checks only through a correspondent bank and shall not be allowed to participate directly in the  Philippine Clearing House Corporation (PCHC) and the BSP check clearing operations: Provided, further, That for failure to comply with these requirements, the following monetary and non-monetary penalties shall be imposed reckoned from the set deadline until the bank has fully complied with the said requirements (1) Monetary penalties  From UB to KB P30,000/day From KB to TB 15,000/day From TB to RB  Within Metro Manila P 5,000/day  Outside Metro Manila 500/day (2) Non-monetary penalties (a) Suspension of branching privileges; (b) Suspension of declaration of cash dividends; (c) Restriction on lending to affiliates;  (d) Denial of access to BSP rediscounting facilities; (e) Suspension of authority to accept or handle government deposits; (f) Suspension of authority to engage in derivatives activities (for a UB converting  into a KB); and (g) Suspension of authority to invest in llied undertakings. c. That a bank which has not corrected as of date of application the major findings/violations noted in its latest examination shall submit upon application  a Memorandum of Understanding that it shall correct the same within a period of six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application, otherwise, the same monetary and non-monetary penalties mentioned in Item “b” above shall  be imposed; d. That the bank shall submit the pertinent amended Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws duly registered with the SEC within six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application; e. That the bank shall fully disclose its new status in its signage, financial  statements and stationeries; and f. That the bank shall start operation in the lower category into which it is converting after approval by the SEC of the bank’s amended Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, its compliance with all the conditions of approval of the conversion  and the issuance by the BSP of a certificate of authority to operate.
When an emergency loan or advance may be availed of. An emergency loan or advance may be granted: a. In periods of national and/or local emergency or of imminent financial panic which directly threaten monetary and banking stability, i.e., situations involving bank runs, massive movements by depositors of their funds from certain banks to other banks, bank holidays and voluntary cessation of business, or when there are movements which endanger the economy, or when the international stability of the peso is threatened, or when there is an exchange crisis. b. During normal periods for the purpose of assisting a bank in a precarious financial condition or under serious financial pressures brought about by unforeseen events or events which though  foreseeable, cannot be prevented by the bank concerned Provided, That there is a concurrent vote of at least five (5) members of the Monetary Board and the latter has ascertained that the bank is not insolvent: Provided, further, That banks with positive CAR of not more than six percent (6%) based on adjusted books of accounts shall submit a Business Improvement Plan (BIP) acceptable to the  BSP within six (6) months from date of advice by the appropriate department of the SES. For this purpose, the appropriate department of the SES shall warn the concerned banks that failure to submit the required BIP in accordance with the criteria of the appropriate department of the SES  shall disqualify the bank from access to the BSP’s emergency loan facility. Banks with zero to negative CAR should have an existing BSP-approved rehabilitation plan and on track with the Plan to be eligible to avail itself of emergency loan.
Modes of entry of foreign banks. With prior approval of the Monetary Board, foreign banks may operate in the Philippines through any one (1) of the following modes: a. By acquiring, purchasing or owning up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of an existing domestic bank (including banks under receivership or liquidation, provided no final court liquidation order has been issued); b. By investing in up to sixty percent (60%) of the voting stock of a new banking subsidiary incorporated under the laws of the Philippines; or c. By establishing branches with full banking authority. Interested foreign banks shall file with the Office of the Governor, BSP, their application for authority to operate in the  Philippines through any of the modes of entry mentioned above.
Extension office shall refer to any permanent office or place of business in the Philippines other than the head office or a branch, where deposits are accepted and/ or withdrawals are serviced by tellers or other authorized personnel. It does not maintain a complete set of books of accounts as its transactions are taken-up directly in the books of the head office or a branch to which it is attached. It shall be treated as a branch for purposes of this Section and its Subsections
Extradition. – The Philippines shall negotiate for the inclusion of money laundering offenses as defined under Section 4 of the AMLA among the extraditable offenses in all future treaties. With respect, however, to the state parties that are signatories to the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime that was ratified by the Philippine Senate on 22 October 2001, money laundering is deemed to be included as an extraditable offense in any extradition treaty existing between said  state parties, and the Philippines shall include money laundering as an extraditable offense in every extradition treaty that may be concluded between the Philippines and any of said state parties in the future
Other foreign equity investment in domestic banks. Except as otherwise covered under Sec. X121 and  ubsec. X126.1, the following guidelines shall be observed on equity investments of foreigners in domestic banks: a. The prior authority of the Monetary Board shall be obtained by foreign banks, including their subsidiaries and their holding companies having majority holdings in such foreign banks, whenever acquiring more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank, including foreign-owned shares outstanding and  foreign-held as of 27 April 1973 and which continued to be held by the foreign stockholder up to the date of the acquisition by the foreign banks. b. (Deleted by Cir. No. 256 dated 15 August 2000) c. The prior authority of the Monetary  board is not required if the foreign investor is (1) an individual, (2) a nonfinancial entity, or (3) a non-bank financial entity which is not owned or controlled by a bank, its subsidiary or holding company, and the investor is acquiring foreign-owned shares in existing domestic banks: Provided, That said shares were outstanding and foreign-held as of 27 April 1973 and which continued to be foreign-held up to the date of acquisition by the foreign  investor. d. The maximum stockholdings foreigners may own in domestic banks shall continue to be governed by existing provisions of law. e. Only foreign-owned shares directly funded by inward remittance of foreign  exchange sold to the local banking system are qualified for registration with the BSP through its appropriate department for capital repatriation and remittance of profits/ dividends privileges, in accordance with  existing BSP rules and regulations.
Governance in all cases of outsourcing of banking functions When outsourcing is allowed by law, a bank shall: a. Be responsible for the performance of the outsourced activity in the same manner and to the same extent as if it was performing directly the said activity; b. Comply with all laws and regulations applicable in the Philippines including labor laws and those governing the banking activities/ services performed by the qualified service providers on the bank’s behalf; c. Monitor and review on an ongoing basis the performance of the service providers undertaking the outsourced activity and/or service; and  d. Update as necessary its assessment of the extent of the materiality of its outsourcing arrangements vis-à-vis the adequacy of its risk management system.
In the case of KBs, the following rules shall govern: a. No new KB shall be established within three (3) years from 13 June 2000 which is the date of effectivity of R.A. No. 8791 or until 12 June 2003. The moratorium as mandated by said law covers only KBs classified and defined as such under Sections 3.2(b) and 29 of R. A. No. 8791 as well as in Item “b.2” of Sec.X101 without prejudice, however, to existing or future moratoriums on other types of bank as has been or may be declared by the Monetary Board. b. The moratorium under Section 8 of R.A. No. 8791 shall cover all applications for issuance of new commercial banking licenses as well as upgrading or conversion of old banking licenses into commercial banking licenses, the organization and incorporation by foreign banks of new commercial banking subsidiaries and any  and all other transactions that may result in the issuance of new commercial bankinglicenses.  c. All such pending applications as of 13 June 2000, including those which have already been decided but with any incident thereto still unresolved or are on reconsideration or appeal, shall not be further acted upon by the BSP and shall be returned to the applicant banks without prejudice to the resubmission or re-filing thereof upon expiration of the moratorium at the option of the applicant banks. No such application shall be considered as automatically re-submitted or re-filed upon expiration of the moratorium
Intra-group outsourcing The guidelines and requirements of outsourcing to third-party service providers shall be observed when outsourcing within  business group including its head office, another branch or related company. When the bank is the service provider, the bank may only render services it performs in the ordinary course of its banking business: Provided, That (i) the service is rendered to subsidiaries, affiliates and companies related to it by at least five percent (5%) common ownership; or (ii) the service is rendered to its own depositors on account of the bank being a depository. The bank, acting as a service provider  within its group, shall uphold the following: a. Confidentiality of deposits and investments in government bonds as defined under R.A. No. 1405, as amended; and b. Prohibition on cross-selling except as allowed under applicable regulations
(2) The implementation of the Prompt Corrective Action Program as detailed below: (a) For undercapitalized banks of up to twenty percent (20%) - (i) Require the bank to execute a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the BSP, binding itself, among others, to implement a viable capital restoration plan acceptable to the BSP within thirty (30) days from date of notice; (ii) Require the intensified monitoring by BSP of bank’s financial condition; and (iii) BSP to conduct a special examination of the bank. (b) For significantly undercapitalized banks of up to sixty percent (60%) -  (i) BSP to call a meeting with bankdirectors/principal officers to discuss and  agree on remedial measures to be taken and the timetable for implementation; (ii) Intensify monitoring by the Supervision and Examination Sector (SES) of the bank’s financial condition; (iii) BSP to conduct immediately an extensive on-site examination; (iv) Require the bank to execute an MOU with the BSP, binding itself, among others, to implement a viable capital restoration plan acceptable to the BSP   within thirty (30) days from date of discussion.  (v) Require the creation of a separate unit in the bank – remedial asset management group which will take care of bank’s bad assets and make progress reports to the BSP; (vi) Appoint an external auditor at the  expense of the bank to perform a financial or operational audit under the terms of reference provided by BSP; and (vii) If necessary, appoint a consultant specialist to diagnose the problem and to recommend the appropriate remedial measures (i.e., introduce new profit  opportunities, improve internal and accounting controls, etc.) to restore bank’s viability (c) For critically undercapitalized banks of more than sixty percent (60%) - (i) Place the bank under Prompt Corrective Action Unit since this requires  more than normal bank supervision; (ii) BSP to call a meeting with bank’s principal shareholders/directors; (iii) BSP to conduct immediately an extensive on-site examination;  (iv) BSP to conduct an intensive monitoring of bank’s financial condition; (v) Require the bank to execute an MOU with the BSP, binding itself, among  others, to implement a viable capital restoration plan acceptable to the BSP within thirty (30) days from date of meeting (vi) Create a BSP Ad Hoc Committee to oversee the implementation of the action plan;  (vii) Require the creation of a separate unit in the bank – remedial asset management group to take care of bank’s bad assets and make progress reports to the BSP; (viii)Appoint an external auditor at the expense of the bank to perform financial or  operational audit under the terms of reference of the BSP; ix) If bank’s condition further  deteriorates to the extent that depositors  nd creditors protection is at stake and its capital base is already deficient by more than eighty percent (80%), appoint/ assist a resident examiner/comptroller or onservator, if legally feasible, to oversee/  take over management of the bank; and (x) If necessary, appoint a consultant specialist to diagnose the problem and to recommend the appropriate remedial measures (i.e., introduce new profit opportunities, improve internal and  accounting controls, etc.) to restore bank’s viability
Types of lines a. Microfinancing loans are small loans granted to the basic sectors, as defined in the Social Reform and Poverty Alleviation Act of 1997 (R.A. No. 8425), and other loans granted to the poor and low-income households for their microenterprises and small businesses so as to enable them to raise their income levels and improve their living standards. These loans are granted on the basis of the borrowers’ cash flow and are typically unsecured. b. Portfolio-at-Risk (PAR) is the outstanding principal amount of all loans that have at least one (1) installment past due for one (1) or more days. The amount includes the unpaid principal balance but excludes accrued interest. Under PAR, loans are considered past due if a payment has fallen due and remained unpaid. Loan  payments are applied first to any interest due, then to any installment of principal that is due but unpaid, beginning with the earliest installment. The number of days of lateness is based on the due date of the earliest loan installment that has not been fully paid. c. Restructured loans are loans that have been renegotiated or modified to either lengthen or postpone the original scheduled installment payments or substantially alter the original terms of the  loans. Any increase in the face amount of  he debt resulting from accrued interest andaccumulated charges which have been capitalized or made part of the principal of restructured loans shall be recorded in the unearned income/deferred credit account “Capitalized Interest and Other Charges - Restructured Loans”. Upon receipt of payment, the realized portion shall be amortized/credited to income. d. Refinanced loans are loans that have been disbursed to enable repayment of prior loans that would not have been paid in accordance with the original installment schedule. Loans granted within a week or less from the date an original loan with more than thirty percent (30%) of the original principal still outstanding  ad been paid in advance shall be considered as refinanced loans. Refinanced loans shall be classified and reported as restructured loans.
Policies on loans to nonimmigrants and embassy officials. Banks are allowed to extend peso loans to the following: a. Non-immigrants holding visas issued under Secs. 9(d) and 9(g) of the Immigration Act of 1940, Special Investor’s Resident Visa (SIRV) and visas issued by the Philippine Economic Zone Authority: Provided, That such loans shall be limited to peso consumer loans including credit cards, auto loans and appliance loans, but excluding real estate or housing loans: Provided, further, That the lending bank institutes measures to mitigate credit risk such as Manual of Regulations for Banks Part III - Page 12a §§ X304.2 - X305.2 08.12.31 requiring the submission of a Comfort Letter from the visa holder’s employer, limiting the term of the loan to the period of the visa’s validity, submission of SIRV identification card, as well as subjecting the visa holder to  the usual credit processes/requirements; andb. Embassy officials [foreign diplomats and career consular officials and employees who are physically residing in  the Philippines for a term of one (1) year or more]: Provided, That such loans shall be limited to consumer loans, including credit cards, auto loans, appliance loans and others that may henceforth be allowed by the Monetary Board: Provided, further, That the lending bank institutes measures to mitigate credit risk such as requiring the submission of a Comfort Letter from the  Embassy employing said officials
Market value Market value is the most probable price that a property should obtain in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite of a fair sale, with the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assuming that the price is not affected by undue stimulus. In determining the market value of the property, the appraiser must use the Market Data or Sales Comparison approach. This approach attempts to compare the subject property’s value with similar properties and adjust its value according  to the presence or absence of value determining characteristics. This approach is based upon the principles of supply and demand and upon the principle of substitution.
Method of computing interest Banks may only charge interest based on the outstanding balance of a loan at the beginning of an interest period. For a loan where principal is payable in installments, interest per installment period shall be calculated based on the outstanding balance of the loan at the beginning of each installment period. Towards this end, all loan-related documents shall show repayment schedules in a manner consistent with this provision. Marketing materials and presentations shall likewise be consistent with this provision. To enhance loan transaction transparency, Effective Interest Rate (EIR) calculation models illustrative of common  loan features are presented in Appendix 91 for guidance. It is understood, however, that an EIR calculation model, founded on established principles of discounted cash flow analysis, for a loan should be based on the actual features thereof. A bank shall be solely responsible for the propriety and  accuracy of its EIR calculation model. However, for purposes of determining compliance with this Section, the Bangko Sentral’s determination of the reasonableness and accuracy of an EIR calculation model prevails.
a. Microfinancing loans are small loans granted to the basic sectors, as defined in the Social Reform and Poverty Alleviation Act of 1997 (R.A. No. 8425), and other loans granted to the poor and low-income households for their microenterprises and small businesses so as to enable them to raise their income levels and improve their living standards. These loans are granted on the basis of the borrowers’ cash flow and are typically unsecured
To facilitate handling of cash deposits, notes and coins shall be arranged and placed in prescribed containers in the following manner: (1) Fit and Unfit Currency Notes (a) Notes of a single denomination must be arranged face and top up in packages of 100 pieces each: (b) The wrapper of each package shall be plainly marked with: (i) the denomination and amount of currency in the package; (ii) the date of verification; (iii) the printed name(s) and signature(s) of depositing bank’s employee(s) who performed the verification; and  (iv) the name of the depositing bank,(c) Pins, clips and staple wires, if any,  must be removed prior to deposit in order to avoid possible injury to employees and damage to equipment; (d) Notes of different denominations shall not be mixed in a single package/ bundle/container; (e) Bundled notes shall be packed in sealed plastic containers in uniform quantity of twenty (20) complete bundles per denomination (each bundle containing 1,000 notes in ten equal packages, each package containing 100 notes); and g. A packing list/tag of the currency in each plastic container shall be placed inside the container. Another tag shall be attached to the container. (2) Coins (a) The coin container bearing the name of the bank shall be prescribed by the BSP; (b) A tag shall be attached to each bag indicating the denomination, quantity, amount, and date deposited:
Penalties for the Crime of Money Laundering. Rule 14.1.a. Penalties under Section 4 (a) of the AMLA. - The penalty of imprisonment ranging from seven (7) to fourteen (14) years and a fine of not less than Php3.0 Million but not more than twice the value of the monetary instrument or property involved in the offense, shall be imposed upon a person convicted under Section 4 (a) of the AMLA. Rule 14.1.b. Penalties under Section 4 (b) of the AMLA. - The penalty of imprisonment  from four (4) to seven (7) years and a fine of not less than Php1.5 Million but not more than Php3.0 Million, shall be imposed upon a person convicted under Section 4 (b) of the AMLA. Rule 14.1.c. Penalties under Section 4 (c) of the AMLA. - The penalty of imprisonment from six (6) months to four (4) years or a fine of not less than Php100,000.00 but not more than Php500,000.00, or both, shall be imposed on a person convicted under  Section 4(c) of the AMLA Rule 14.1.d. Administrative Sanctions. - (1) After due notice and hearing, the AMLC shall, at its discretion, impose fines upon any covered institution, its officers and employees, or any person who violates any of the provisions of R.A. No. 9160, as amended by R.A. No. 9194 and rules, regulations, orders and resolutions issued pursuant thereto. The  fines shall be in amounts as may be determined by the council, taking into consideration all the attendant circumstances, such as the nature and gravity of the violation or irregularity, but in no case shall such fines be less than Php100,000.00 but not to exceed Php500,000.00. The imposition of the administrative sanctions shall be without prejudice to the filing of criminal charges against the persons responsible for the  violations.
Nature of emergency loans or advances. An emergency loan or advance is a credit facility that is intended to assist a bank experiencing serious liquidity problems arising from causes not attributable to, or beyond the control of, the bank management. The grant of such facility is discretionary upon the Monetary Board, and is intended only as a temporary remedial measure to help a solvent bank overcome serious liquidity problems. As provided under Sections 84 to 88 of R.A. No. 7653, no emergency loan or advance may be granted except on a fully secured basis and the Monetary Board may prescribe additional conditions, which the borrowing banks must satisfy in order to have access to the credit facility of the BSP
Offshore outsourcing Offshore outsourcing exists when the service provider is located outside the country. Subsec. X162.7 on intra-group outsourcing likewise applies in cases of offshore outsourcing. In addition, offshore outsourcing of bank’s domestic operations is permitted only when the service provider operates in jurisdictions which uphold confidentiality. When the service provider is located in other countries, the bank should take into account and closely monitor, on continuing basis, government policies and other conditions in countries where the service provider is based during risk assessment process. The bank shall also develop appropriate contingency and exit strategies.  The Bangko Sentral examiners shall be given access to the service provider and those relating to the outsourced domestic operations of the bank. Such access may be fulfilled by on-site examination through coordination with host authorities, if necessary. The domestic branch of foreign bank shall be principally liable in cases where the clients are prejudiced due to errors, omissions and frauds of the service provider located offshore. The Bangko Sentral may require the bank to terminate, modify, make alternative outsourcing arrangement or re-integrate the outsourced activity into the bank, as may  be necessary, if confidentiality of customer information, effective customer redress mechanisms or the ability of the Bangko Sentral to carry out its supervision functions cannot be assured.
Open Market Operations The following rules and regulations shall govern the buying and selling of government securities in the open market, pursuant to Section 91 of R.A. No. 7653. a. The BSP may buy and sell in the open market for its own account: (1) Evidences of indebtedness issued directly by the Government of the Philippines or its political subdivisions; and (2) Evidences of indebtedness issued by government instrumentalities and fully guaranteed by the Government. The above evidences of indebtedness must be freely negotiable and regularly serviced. Purchases and sales in the open market shall be made through banks, QBs and accredited government securities  dealers. b. Outright purchases and sales of government securities shall be effected at prevailing market prices. c. Repo agreements shall be open to banks (except RBs), QBs, and accredited government securities dealers and shall be made under the terms provided for in Subsec. X601.1 and the following: (1) The repo agreement may be paid at any time before maturity, subject to mutual agreement of both parties;  (2) In the event the securities covered by the repo agreement are not repurchased by the issuer of such agreement, the same may be sold in the open market or transferred to the BSP portfolio; and (3) Should an issuer of a repo agreement become no longer qualified as such, its outstanding repo agreement shall immediately become due and payable.  If settlement of the amount due is not made within three (3) days from the date of its disqualification, the BSP shall proceed to collect said amount in accordance with the preceding paragraph. d. Reverse repo agreements covering the sale of portion of the security holdings of the BSP portfolio may be made under the terms provided for in Subsec. X601.2.  e. The purchase and sale of government securities by the National Treasury and government-owned or controlled corporations shall be made only with (a) the BSP; (b) the DBP, the LBP, the SSS, the GSIS, the Al-Amanah Islamic Investment Bank of the Philippines and banks that are wholly-owned or controlled  by these institutions; and (c) the Philippine Veterans Bank. Transactions shall be done with the bank proper and not through its trust department
Other banking office shall refer to any office or place of business in the Philippines other than the head office, branch or extension office, which primarily engages in banking activities other than the acceptance of deposits and/or servicing of withdrawals thru tellers or other authorized personnel. It shall include loan collection and disbursement points (LCDPs) of microfinance-oriented banks and microfinance/barangay micro business enterprise (BMBE)-oriented branches of banks which may accept deposits solely from existing microfinance/BMBE borrowers: Provided, That account openings and other banking transactions of said microfinance/ BMBE borrowers shall be done only at the head office/branches/ extension offices or thru automated teller machines (ATMs), as may be applicable
Statement of Principle on Outsourcing. An institution may outsource banking support and marketing activities subject to the provisions set forth below. Accordingly, an institution is exposed to operational risks as a result of outsourcing. As such, an institution that avails of outsourcing should have in place appropriate mechanisms to ensure the effective management of attendant risks
Prompt corrective action framework. A bank may be subject to Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) whenever any or all of the following conditions obtain: (1) When either of the Total Risk-Based Ratio [otherwise known as Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)], Tier 1 Risk-Based Ratio, or Leverage Ratio (total capital/total assets) falls below ten percent (10%), six percent (6%) and five percent (5%), respectively, or such other minimum levels that may be prescribed for the said ratios under relevant regulations, and/or the combined capital account falls below the minimum capital requirement prescribed under Subsec. X106.1; (2) The Capital Adequacy, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings, Liquidity and Sensitivity to Market Risk (“CAMELS”) composite rating is less than three “3” or a Management component rating of less than three “3”; and (3) A serious supervisory concern has been identified that places a bank at more than-normal risk of failure in the opinion of the Director of the examination department concerned, which opinion is confirmed by the Monetary Board. Such concerns could include, but are not limited, to any one (1) or a combination of the following; (a) Finding of unsafe and unsound activities that could adversely affect the interest of depositors and/or creditors; (b) A finding of repeat violations of law or continuing failure to comply with Monetary Board directives; and (c) Significant reporting errors that materially misrepresent the bank’s financial condition
Repurchase agreements with Bangko Sentral a. Repo agreements may be effected with the BSP subject to the following terms and conditions: (1) Rate. The rates on the repo agreement facility shall be set by the Treasury Department, with the concurrence of the Governor, taking into account prevailing liquidity/market conditions. (2) Term. At the option of the Treasury Department, availments may be for a minimum of one (1) day (overnight) and a maximum of ninety-one (91) days. (3) Security. Only obligations of the National Government and its instrumentalities and political subdivisions,  hich are fully guaranteed by the Government, with a remaining maturity of not more than ten (10) years and which are freely negotiable and regularly serviced, shall be eligible as underlying instruments for repo agreements subject to the collateral requirement prescribed by the BSP. (4) Delivery. Delivery of the underlying instruments shall be made to the BSP at the prescribed time. For overnight repo agreements, delivery of the underlying instruments shall be made not later than 12:00 noon of the date of transaction. Government securities which are held  by the issuer of the repo agreement under the book-entry system with the BSP may be used as underlying instruments only with the conformity of the BSP. (5) Upon termination of the repo  greement, the issuer of such agreement shall claim and take delivery of the underlying instruments at the Treasury Department, BSP. Failure to claim and take  delivery of the underlying instruments immediately upon such termination shall relieve the BSP of any liability or responsibility for the loss or misplacement of said instruments. b. US dollar (USD) denominated repo agreement facility may likewise be effected with the BSP, subject to the following terms and conditions, and as may be provided  under the repo agreement facility: (1) Eligible borrowers. The USD denominated repo agreement facility shall only be available to banks with legitimate foreign currency denominated funding needs as may be provided under the repo agreement facility: Provided, That the borrowing shall be for the account of the applicant bank and shall not be used to fund liquidity requirements of foreign branches, affiliates, or subsidiaries.  (2) Collateral. Only USD denominated obligations of the National Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall be eligible as collateral. (3) The guidelines on the availment of USD denominated repo agreement with  the BSP are shown in Appendix 86.The Monetary Board may, at its  discretion, impose any or all of the following sanctions to a bank and/or its director/s or officer/s found to be responsible for violation of the provisions on the terms and conditions of the USD denominated repo agreement with the BSP: (1) Termination of eligibility and pre-termination of any outstanding balance  through repayment and/or sale of the collateral; (2) Fine of up to P30,000 per transaction per day of violation reckoned from the time the violation was committed up to the date it is corrected;  (3) Suspension of interbank clearing privileges/immediate exclusion from clearing; (4) Suspension of access to BSP rediscounting facilities; (5) Suspension of lending or foreign exchange operations or authority to accept new deposits or make new investments; (6) Revocation of authority to perform trust operations; (7) Revocation of quasi-banking license; (8) Suspension for 120 days without   ay of the officers and/or directors responsible for the violation; and 9) Other sanctions as may be  provided by law.
Transfer of shares. The following regulations shall govern transfer of voting shares of stocks in banks: a. Unlawful and void transactions involving voting stocks in banks. The following transactions, to the extent of the excess over any of the prescribed ceilings are hereby declared unlawful. (1) The sale or transfer of voting stock of a UB, a KB or an RB1  to any individual, if such sale or transfer, in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer shall result in the ownership by an individual in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of the bank. (2) The sale or transfer of voting stock of banks to any individual or entity, if such sale or transfer, in itself, or in relation with  another previous sale or transfer shall result in the ownership by foreign persons and/ or foreign non-bank corporations in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock in a UB or a KB and sixty percent (60%) in case of a TB. (3) The sale or transfer of voting stocks of UB or KB to any corporation, if such sale or transfer, in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer shall result in the ownership by such corporation in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of the bank, unless allowed under R.A. No. 7721 and R.A. No. 8791. (4) The sale or transfer of voting shares of stocks of UBs or KBs or RBs1   to (a) any natural person; and (b) any corporation or corporations which are wholly-owned or a majority of the voting stock of which is owned by such natural person if such sale  f transfer in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer, shall result in the combined ownership by such natural person and such corporations in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of the bank, unless allowed under R.A. No. 7721 and R.A. No. 8791. (5) Any arrangement, such as voting  trust agreement or proxy, which vests in any person or corporation the right to voteor control voting stocks in banks, if such agreement in itself, or in relation with another previous similar agreement or previous sale or transfer shall result in the  acquisition of control, in excess of the prescribed limitations. b. Duties of a corporate secretary. In  all transactions, which may lawfully come to the knowledge of the corporate secretary involving transfer of voting shares of stock or registration of voting trust agreements,  or any form of agreement vesting the right to vote the voting shares of stock of the bank, the corporate secretary shall: (1) ascertain the identity and citizenship  of the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, and for this purpose, he should require the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or the person vested with the right to vote to submit proof of citizenship, which may consist, in case of a corporation, of a certified true copy of the articles of incorporation, accompanied by the affidavit of the corporate secretary of the corporation, certifying to the correctness and accuracy of the list of stockholders and the percentage of shares owned by them; (2) require the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, at the time of the receipt of the request for transfer or registration, or at any time thereafter, to disclose all information with respect to persons related to the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, as well as corporations, partnerships or associations where the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote has controlling interest, and the extent thereof; (3) require the transferee to execute an affidavit (sample format shown in Appendix 4) stating, among other things, that the transferee is a bona fide owner of shares of stock and that he acknowledges full awareness of the requirements of the law and the prohibitions against exceeding ownership of voting stocks beyond the prescribed limitations. If the request for transfer or the arrangement sought to be registered will patently cause the voting stocks of a person or a corporation, to exceed the limits prescribed by law, the corporate secretary shall deny the transfer or registration and forthwith inform the parties to the transaction in writing. Simultaneous with the notice to the parties, the corporate secretary shall submit a written report to the Governor of the BSP of the attempted illegal transfer or arrangements, together with the names, addresses of parties and other pertinent data with respect to the particular stock transaction. In the event the corporate secretary has reason to doubt the legality of the transfer or of the arrangement sought to be registered, he may commence an action before the appropriate body; (4) promptly inform stockholders who have reached any of the ceilings imposed by law, of their ineligibility to own or control  ore than the applicable ceiling; and (5) disclose the ultimate beneficial owners of bank shares held in the name of Philippine Central Depository (PCD) Nominee Corporation in the quarterly report on Consolidated List of Stockholders and Their Stockholdings which report shall be made under oath by the authorized bank officers/signatories. Any violation of the provision of this Subsection shall be subject to a penalty of P30,000 per day until the correct report is submitted to the BSP.  c. Transfers requiring prior Monetary Board approval (1) Prior approval of the Monetary Board shall be required on the following: (a) Any sale or transfer or series of sales or transfers which will result in ownership or control of more than twenty percent (20%) of the voting stock of a bank by any person whether natural or juridical or which will enable such person to elect, or be elected as, a director of such bank; and (b) Any sale or transfer or series of sales or transfers which will effect a change in the majority ownership or control of the voting stock of the bank from one (1) group of persons to another group: Provided, That in no case shall such sale or transfer be approved unless the bank concerned shall immediately comply with the prescribed minimum capital requirement for new banks, notwithstanding any approved capital build-up program. (2) For purposes of these regulations, the sale or transfer of voting stock shall refer to sales or transfers of voting stock which are allowed under existing laws or BSP rules and regulations and which have not beenregistered/recorded in the transfer book/  stock ledger or other records of banks.(3) Sanctions. Any violation of the provisions under Items “c(1)(a)” and “(b)” above shall be subject to the sanctions prescribed under Sections 36 and 37 of R.A. No. 7653, without prejudice to theappropriate legal actions for the rescission and invalidation of the sale or transfer. d. Requirement for newly established banks. Entities which may hereinafter apply for a license to engage in banking business shall, before being allowed to operate,submit - (1) An alphabetical list of stockholders with the number and percentage of voting stock owned by them; and (2) A separate list containing the names of persons who own voting stocks in banks and who are related to each other withinthe fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, with proper indication of the combined percentage of voting stocks held by them in the particular bank, as well as corporations which are wholly-owned or a majority of the stock of which is owned by any of such persons, including their subsidiaries.
The following rules shall govern the establishment of tellering booths in BIR offices: a. As a general policy, the establishment of tellering booths in BIR offices are not authorized. However, in cases where tellering booths in offices are needed as determined by the BIR,banks shall secure prior Monetary Board approval; b. A bank’s application shall be accompanied by a letter from the BIR Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner or other officer specifically authorized by the Commissioner to sign such letter, stating that the BIR has agreed to allow the applicant bank to establish a tellering booth in the specified BIR office; c. The applicant bank has complied with the standard pre qualification requirements prescribed in Appendix 5; and d. Tax collections received shall be subject to rules on government deposits.
Truth in Lending Act" Disclosure Requirement. Banks are required to strictly adhere to the provisions of R.A. No. 3765, otherwise known as the "Truth in Lending Act", and shall make the true and effective cost of borrowing an integral part of every loan contract. The following regulations shall apply to all banks engaged in the following types of credit transactions: a. Any loan, mortgage, deed of trust, advance and discount; b. Any conditional sales contract, any contract to sell, or sale or contract of sale of property or services, either for present or future delivery, under which part or all of the price is payable subsequent to the making of such sale or contract; c. Any rental-purchase contract; d. Any contract or arrangement for the hire, bailment, or leasing of property; e. Any option, demand, lien, pledge, or other claim against, or for delivery of, property or money; f. Any purchase, or other acquisition of, or any credit upon security of any obligation or claim arising out of any of the foregoing; and g. Any transaction or series of transactions having a similar purpose or effect. The following categories of credit transactions are outside the scope of these regulations: (1) Credit transactions which do not involve the payment of any finance charge by the debtor; and (2) Credit transactions in which the debtor is the one specifying a definite and fixed set of credit terms such as bank deposits, insurance contracts, sale of bonds, etc.
Authority to Assist the United Nations and other International Organizations and Foreign States. – The AMLC is authorized under Section 7 (8) and 13 (b) and (d) of the AMLA to receiveand take action in respect of any request of foreign states for assistance in their own anti-money laundering operations. It is also authorized under Section 7 (7) of the AMLA to cooperate with the National Government and/or take appropriate action in respect of conventions, resolutions and other directives of the United Nations (UN), the UN Security Council, and other international organizations of which the Philippines is a member. However, the AMLC may refuse to comply with any such request, convention, resolution or directive where the action sought therein contravenes the provision of the Constitution or the  execution thereof is likely to prejudice the national interest of the Philippines.
Unfair collection practices Banks, collection agencies, counsels and other agents may resort to all reasonable and legally permissible means to collect amounts due them under the loan agreement: Provided, That in the exercise of their rights and performance of duties, they must observe good faith and reasonable conduct and refrain from engaging in unscrupulous or untoward acts. Without limiting the general application of the foregoing, the  following conduct is a violation of this Subsection: a. the use or threat of violence or other criminal means to harm the physical person, reputation, or property of any person; b. the use of obscenities, insults, or profane language which amount to a criminal act or offense under applicable laws; c. disclosure of the names of borrowers who allegedly refuse to pay debts, except as allowed under Subsec. X304.12; d. threat to take any action that cannot legally be taken; e. communicating or threat to communicate to any person credit information which is known to be false, including failure to communicate that a debt is being disputed; f. any false representation or deceptive to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain information concerning a  borrower; and g. making contact at unreasonable/ inconvenient times or hours which shall be defined as contact before 6:00 A.M. or after 10:00 P.M., unless the account is past due for more than sixty (60) days or the borrower  has given express permission or said times are the only reasonable or convenient opportunities for contact. Banks shall inform their borrowers in writing of the endorsement of the collection of their account to a collection agency/ agent, or the endorsement of their account rom one collection agency/agent to another, at least seven (7) days prior to the actual endorsement. The notification shall include the full name of the collection agency and  its contact details: Provided, That the required notification in writing shall be  included in the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Banks shall adopt policies and procedures to ensure that personnel handling the collection of accounts, whether these are in-house collectors, or third-party collection agents, shall disclose his/her full  name/true identity to the borrower
Valuation of leasehold A leasehold is the real right of the lessee acquired from an owner (the lessor) of a piece of real estate to occupy and use it for a fixed term or period at a stipulated rental rate, and subject to conditions set forth in a written document of lease. The lease may include the right of the lessee to improve the land, mortgage the building, sublet all or part of the property, and assign or sell his leasehold. The task of the appraiser is to estimate the present worth or “market value” of the imputed rental income of the lessee derived from the property over and above the rent required to be paid by him to the lessor under the terms of the lease and his interest in any improvements made by him. In evaluating a  leasehold, the appraiser must have a thorough knowledge of all the salient terms and conditions of the primary or main lease and any subleases, for these affect the value of the leasehold considerably, such as: Rental. If the rental to be paid under the terms of the lease is below the rental  prevailing in the market, the leasehold may have a substantial value. Where the rental  actually paid is the prevailing rental value of the property, the leasehold may have no  value. Prevailing rental rates refer to the rental rates of comparable properties within comparable locations. b. Term of Lease. A long-term lease or the right of the lessee to renew the lease at the expiration of the original term of the lease may add value to the leasehold. c. Payment for Improvement d. Option to Purchase e. Leasehold Restrictions 