The SEC shall not register the articles of incorporation of any bank, or any amendment thereto, unless accompanied by a certificate of authority issued by the Monetary Board, under its seal. The  certificate shall not be issued unless the onetary Board is satisfied from the evidence submitted that: a. All requirements of existing laws and regulations to engage in the business for which the applicant is proposed to be incorporated have been complied with; b. The public interest and economic conditions, both general and local, justify the authorization; and c. The amount of capital, the financing, organization, direction and administration, as well as the integrity and responsibility of the organizers and  administrators reasonably assure the safety of deposits and the public interest. Likewise, the SEC shall not register the by-laws of any bank, or any amendment hereto, unless accompanied by a certificate of authority from the BSP
Conditions for the grant of authority to convert into a lower category a. That the bank must have complied with the end-2000 minimum capital requirement and other laws/regulations applicable to the lower bank category into which it is converting. For this purpose, the term “capital” shall be as defined under Sec. X106; b. That the bank immediately upon receipt of notice of approval of conversion shall not engage in nor renew transactions under authorities not associated with those allowed for the lower bank category into which it is converting and within six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application for conversion, the bank shall phase-out all inherent powers and activities under special authorities not normally associated to the lower bank category into which it is converting: Provided, That a TB (previously authorized by the Monetary Board to accept demand deposits) may be allowed to retain such authority when converting into an RB but may clear checks only through a correspondent bank and shall not be allowed to participate directly in the Philippine Clearing House Corporation (PCHC) and the BSP check clearing operations: Provided, further, That for failure to comply with these requirements, the following monetary and non-monetary penalties shall be imposed reckoned from the set deadline until the bank has fully complied with the said requirements (1) Monetary penalties From UB to KB P30,000/day From KB to TB 15,000/day From TB to RB  Within Metro Manila P 5,000/day  Outside Metro Manila 500/day (2) Non-monetary penalties (a) Suspension of branching privileges; (b) Suspension of declaration of cash dividends; (c) Restriction on lending to affiliates; (d) Denial of access to BSP rediscounting facilities; (e) Suspension of authority to accept or handle government deposits; (f) Suspension of authority to engage in derivatives activities (for a UB converting into a KB); and (g) Suspension of authority to invest in allied undertakings. c. That a bank which has not corrected as of date of application the major findings/violations noted in its latest examination shall submit upon application a Memorandum of Understanding that it shall correct the same within a period of six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application, otherwise, the same monetary and non-monetary penalties mentioned in Item “b” above shall be imposed; d. That the bank shall submit the pertinent amended Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws duly registered with the SEC within six (6) months from date of receipt of notice of approval of its application; e. That the bank shall fully disclose its new status in its signage, financial statements and stationeries; and f. That the bank shall start operation in the lower category into which it is converting after approval by the SEC of the bank’s amended Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, its compliance with all the conditions of approval of the conversion and the issuance by the BSP of a certificate of authority to operate. The same conditions and sanctions mentioned in Items “a” to “f” above shall apply to all banks which have downgraded or with approved downgrading prior to 13 March 2000: Provided, That the penalties mentioned in Items “b” and “c” above shall be reckoned from their respective prescribed deadlines or within six (6) months from 13 March 2000, if no such deadline is prescribed.
Microfinance-oriented TBs and RBs are disallowed from converting to regular TBs and RBs. b. Microfinance-oriented branches of regular TBs and RBs may convert into regular branches, five (5) years after the start of the branch’s operations, subject to the submission of the following: (1) Certification signed by the president or officer of equivalent rank that: (a) At least seventy percent (70%) of deposits generated by the branch to be established shall be actually lent out to microfinance borrowers; and (b) The microfinance loans of said branch shall at all times be fifty percent (50%) of its gross loan portfolio are no longer feasible due to changes in market condition in the locality where it is located. The certification shall be supported by a market study citing, among others, changes in demographic, social, and economic factors; and (2) Certified true copy of the resolution of the bank’s board of directors authorizing the conversion of the microfinance-oriented branch into a regular branch.
The guidelines on the establishment of a microfinance-oriented bank are as follows: a. Microfinance-oriented banks may be established on a very selective basis, preferably in places not fully served by existing RBs or in areas not fully serviced by microfinance-oriented banks, subject to  the following additional criteria (in addition to standard licensing requirements): (1) That the microfinance-oriented bank to be established shall either be a TB or an RB; (2) That the capital of the microfinance-oriented banks to be established should be owned by private persons, multilateral entities or a combination thereof; (3) That in the case of an RB to be established as a microfinance bank, the minimum paid-in capital shall be P5.0 million or the applicable existing capitalization requirement for a new RB, whichever is higher. The capitalization requirement under existing regulations shall apply to TBs;  (4) That the organizers must have the capacity to engage in microfinancing, which may be indicated by the following: (a) At least twenty percent (20%) of the paid-in capital of the proposed bank must be owned by persons or entities with track record in microfinancing. (b) Majority of the members of the board of directors have experience in microfinancing with at least one (1) member having actual banking experience. (c) The proposed bank must have as a minimum, an adequate loan tracking system that allows daily monitoring of loan releases, collection and arrearages, and any restructuring and refinancing. (5) In addition to the requirements for the establishment of banks in Appendix 37, the application for authority to establish a microfinance-oriented bank must be accompanied by the following documents: (a) A vision and mission statement with clear expression of the commitment to reach low-income clients. (b) A written manual of operations,  which shall include the administrative and credit program systems and procedures. (6) At least fifty percent (50%) of the bank’s gross loan portfolio shall at all times consist of microfinance loans as defined in Sec. X361. b. The requirement that the president, chief operating officer or general manager of a TB or RB must have at least two (2) years experience in banking and/or finance may be substituted with microfinance experience in cases of officers of a microfinance organization applying for authority to establish, or convert into a TB or RB: Provided, That the concerned officer is a college graduate. c. Subject to the standard branching requirements, microfinance-oriented banks are also exempted from the general moratorium on the establishment of bank branches, under Sec. X151. After one (1) year of profitable operations, a microfinance-oriented bank may apply for establishment of a branch but the Monetary Board may require additional capital to be infused for every branch in addition to the minimum capital of the TB/RB. d. Existing microfinance organizations applying for authority to establish, or convert into a TB or RB may also be allowed to convert their existing branches/ offices into branches of the bank proposed to be established by simultaneously applying for authority for the purpose. However, the standard requirements for the establishment of branches, particularly the capitalization requirement, have to be complied with. Moreover, there must be a proof that the area is not fully served by any existing RB
Prerequisites for the grant of a universal banking authority a. Compliance with guidelines. A domestic bank seeking authority to operate as a UB shall submit an application to the appropriate supervising and examining department (SED) of the BSP. The applicant shall comply with the guidelines for the issuance of a UB authority and shall submit all the documentary requirements enumerated in Appendix 1. b. Public offering of bank shares. A domestic bank applying for a UB authority shall, as a condition to the approval of its application, make a public offering of at least ten percent (10%) of the required minimum capital and this condition must be complied with before it can be granted the license for authority to operate as a UB. The term public offering shall mean the offer to sell equity shares to the public. Public shall refer to all prospective stockholders, excluding the bank’s directors, shareholders owning twenty percent (20%) or more of the bank’s subscribed capital stock, together with those of their relatives within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, and corporations controlled or affiliated with them.  A bank whose shares of stock are already listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE) at the time of filing of its application for UB authority shall be deemed to have complied with the public offering requirement. Likewise, an applicant bank may opt to have its shares listed in the PSE directly instead of passing through the process of public offering. In either case, at least ten percent (10%) of the applicant bank’s capital stock should be held by public stockholders before it can be granted the license for authority to operate as a UB. c. Listing of bank shares in the stock exchange. Domestic banks granted a UB license, existing or new, must list their shares in the PSE within three (3) years: Provided, That in the case of new UBs, the three (3) year period shall be reckoned from the date the license to operate as a UB was granted. In the case of existing UBs which have not listed their shares in the exchange, the three (3) year period lapsed on 27 December 1998
Suspension of the grant of new banking licenses on the establishment of new banks. Pending completion of a study, there shall be an indefinite moratorium on the establishment of new banks, except in cities and municipalities where there are no existing banking offices. The moratorium shall apply to all applications for establishment of new banks, including pending ones received prior to 16 August 1999. However, approved but not yet opened banks shall be exempted from the moratorium. Requests for extension of the period within which to open approved but ot yet opened banks shall, however, be evaluated on a case-to-case basis depending, among others, on the bank’s substantial compliance with the preoperating requirements. In the case of KBs, the following rules shall govern: a. No new KB shall be established within three (3) years from 13 June 2000 which is the date of effectivity of R.A. No. 8791 or until 12 June 2003. The moratorium as mandated by said law covers only KBs classified and defined as such under Sections 3.2(b) and 29 of R. A. No. 8791 as well as in Item “b.2” of Sec. X101 without prejudice, however, to existing or future moratoriums on other types of bank as has been or may be declared by the Monetary Board. b. The moratorium under Section 8 of R.A. No. 8791 shall cover all applications for issuance of new commercial banking licenses as well as upgrading or conversion of old banking licenses into commercial banking licenses, the organization and incorporation by foreign banks of new commercial banking subsidiaries and any and all other transactions that may result in the issuance of new commercial banking licenses. c. All such pending applications as of 13 June 2000, including those which have already been decided but with any incident thereto still unresolved or are on reconsideration or appeal, shall not be further acted upon by the BSP and shall be returned to the applicant banks without prejudice to the resubmission or re-filing thereof upon expiration of the moratorium at the option of the applicant banks. No such application shall be considered as automatically re-submitted or re-filed upon expiration of the moratorium. d. The moratorium under Section 8 of R. A. No. 8791 shall not be applicable to: (1) acquisition or purchase by foreign banks of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the voting stock of existing domestic KBs;  ) the transfer of license of an existing KB to another corporation, subject to prior approval of the Monetary Board; (3) new KBs resulting out of mergers or consolidations where at least one (1) of the banks involved in such merger or consolidation is a KB; and (4) downgrading or refocusing of UBs into KBs.