Additional reports from UBs/KBs a. Volume and weighted average interest rates of deposits and loans. Data on the volume of transactions and weighted average interest rates of certificates of time deposits and secured/ unsecured loans granted, classified by maturity, and outstanding savings deposits classified by interest rates, shall be prepared daily (except data on savings deposits which shall be prepared weekly) and submitted weekly by all head offices of UBs/KBs to the Department of Economic Research of the BSP not later than 4:00 PM on Thursday after end of reference week. b. Short-term prime rates. All UBs and KBs shall submit in the prescribed form a report on the volume and interest rates on credit line availments under short-term prime rates in such frequency and within the deadline indicated in Appendix 6. c. (Deleted by Circular No. 405 dated 28 August 2003). Foreign Exchange Position ReportBanks may be allowed to submit on a weekly basis the notarized certification signed by the bank’s president/CEO/country manager and the treasurer to cover the daily hard copies of Schedule 13, FX Form I and CFXPR pertaining to each day of the week. Delayed submission of the notarized certification shall be subject to monetary penalty, as follows: Daily Penalty 1st banking day of P6,000.00 (equivalent delay P1,200.00 per day for five (5) report dates covered by the certification on the assumption that the five (5) weekdays of the reference week are all banking days) 2nd banking day of P1,200.00/day delay and onwards
Adoption of the Manual of Accounts. Banks shall strictly adopt the Manual of Accounts prescribed by the BSP for recording daily transactions including reportorial and publication requirements. Local branches of foreign banks may continue using their parent bank’s general ledger accounts: Provided, That published statements and reports submitted to the BSP follow the account definitions in the BSP-prescribed Manual of Accounts: Provided, further, That the mathematical formulas for reconciling such published statements and submitted reports with the general ledger accounts of the bank are submitted to the appropriate department of the SES: Provided, finally, That said banks prepare for BSP use, reconciliations of their ledger accounts with the BSP prescribed Manual of Accounts during regular or special bank examinations. Any bank which fails or refuses to adopt the prescribed Manual of Accounts, or any of the applicable accounts contained therein, or adopts any general ledger account not specified in the said Manual of Accounts without prior written approval of the Governor of the BSP, shall be penalized by revocation or suspension of its authority to engage in quasi-banking function.
TBs/RBs/Coop Banks with resources of less than P1 billion (1) A TB, RB and Coop Bank belonging to this category shall either publish its quarterly BS as of the cut-off date indicated in the call letter issued by the SES of the BSP, in a newspaper of general circulation as in Item “a(3)” above or post the same in the most conspicuous area of its premises, in the municipal building, municipal public market, barangay hall and barangay public market where the head office and all its branches are located. The posting shall be printed on 12”x18” white paper, preferably white buff paper (cartolina) and shall be made within twenty (20) banking days from the end of the reference quarter and for a period of thirty (30) successive calendar days.  (a) A TB, RB and Coop Bank thatshall publish/post its quarterly BS shall submit a soft copy of the same to the SDC within twenty (20) banking days after the end of the reference quarter. (b) Banks that are incapable of submitting the BS in electronic form shall submit the same in hard copy to the SDC within the said deadline. (c) In either case, an affidavit executed by the president, or in his absence, the vice president or manager, as the case may be, shall likewise be submitted to the SDC within the said deadline
Publication/Posting of balance sheet a. UBs/KBs, TBs, RBs and Coop Banks with resources of P1.0 billion and above (1) Banks belonging to this category shall accomplish the prescribed form and publish their quarterly Balance Sheet (BS) as of the cut-off date indicated in the call letter issued by the SES. The Consolidated Balance Sheet (CBS) of a bank and its subsidiaries and affiliates shall be published side by side with the BS of its head office and its branches/other offices. (2) The CBS of the bank and its subsidiaries and affiliates shall be prepared in accordance with the rules of consolidation provided under the Financial Reporting Package (FRP), in which case, only financial allied subsidiaries, except subsidiary insurance companies, shall be consolidated on a line-by-line basis, while non-financial allied subsidiaries including subsidiary insurance companies shall be accounted for using the equity method. (3) Such BS, and CBS where applicable, shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city/province where the principal office, in the case of a domestic bank, or the principal branch/office, in the case of a foreign bank, is located, but if no newspaper is published in the same province, then in a newspaper published in Metro Manila or in the nearest city/province. (4) The names and position/ designation of the members of the board of directors, president and executive vice presidents (senior vice presidents, if there are no executive vice presidents), shall be published and shown in the right side column of the published BS as of June of every year. (5) (a) Before publication, a soft copy of the BS shall be submitted to the SDC within twelve (12) banking days from the date of the call letter. Further, a hard copy of the control proof list for the said report shall likewise be submitted to the SDC within the said deadline. (b) Banks that are incapable of submitting the BS in electronic form shall submit the same in hard copy to the SDC within the said deadline. (c) The published BS with the publisher’s certificate shall be submitted within twenty (20) banking days after the date of said call letter to the SDC
These regulations are designed to: a. Promote maximum protection of life and property against crimes (e.g. robbery, hold-up, theft, etc.) and other destructive causes; b. Prevent and discourage perpetration of crimes against bank; and c. Assist law enforcement agencies in the identification, apprehension and prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes committed against banks.
The following guidelines shall be observed in the preparation and submission of the report: (1) The Branch or Head Office unit’s Report on Crimes and Losses shall be submitted to the BSP through the bank’s head office unit and shall be certified correct by the compliance officer. The report shall be assigned a prescribed reference number by the bank using the format mm-yyyy-xxx with mm and yyyy as numeric code for the month and year of reporting respectively and xxx as sequence no. (e.g. 01-2007-001) which shall be a continuing series until the end of the year. The report shall be prepared using the new format in two (2) copies and shall be submitted to the SDC and to the BSP Security Coordinator, thru the Director, Security, Investigation and Transport Department (SITD) within ten (10) calendar days from knowledge of the crime/ incident; (2) Where a thorough investigation and evaluation of facts is necessary to complete the report, an initial report submitted within deadline may be accepted: Provided, That a complete report is submitted not later than twenty (20) calendar days from termination of investigation. Moreover, final reports on crimes and losses with incomplete information as required under SES Form 6G shall be considered erroneous reports and the concerned bank shall be required to submit amended reports subject to penalties on late reporting for Category B reports under Subsec. X162.2; and (3) Proof of submission of the report shall be determined by the date of postmark, if the report was sent by mail or by the date received, if handcarried to the SDC and SITD
Report on crimes/losses Banks shall report on the following matters to the appropriate department of the SES. a. Crimes whether consummated, frustrated or attempted against property/ facilities (such as robbery, theft, swindling or estafa, forgery and other deceits) and other crimes involving loss/destruction of bank property when the amount involved, in each crime is P20,000 or more. Crimes involving bank personnel, regardless of whether or not such crimes involve the loss/destruction of bank property, even if the amount involved is less than P20,000, shall likewise be reported to the BSP. b. Incidents involving material loss, destruction or damage to the bank’s property/facilities, other than arising from a crime, when the amount involved per incident is P100,000 or more. c. Definition of terms. For the purpose of this regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (1) Estafa - a crime committed by a person who defrauds another causing the latter to suffer damage by means of any of he following: (a) unfaithfulness or abuse of confidence; (b) false pretense; or (c) fraudulent acts/means, under Articles 315 to 317 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (2) Theft - a crime committed by a person who, with intent to gain but without violence against or intimidation of persons nor force upon things, shall take personal  property of another without the latter’s consent pursuant to Article 308 and other pertinent provisions of Chapter III, Title X of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (3) Robbery - a crime committed by a person who, with intent to gain, shall take any personal property belonging to another, by means of violence against or intimidation of any person, or using force upon anything pursuant to Article 295 and other pertinent provisions of Chapter 1, Title X of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (4) Falsification – a crime committed by a person who falsifies a document by (a) Counterfeiting or imitating any handwriting, signature or rubric; (b) Causing it to appear that persons have participated in any act or proceeding  when they did not in fact so participate;(c) Attributing to persons who have participated in an act or proceeding statements other than those in fact made by them; (d) Making untruthful statements in a  narration of facts; (e) Altering true dates; (f) Making any alteration or intercalation in a genuine document which changes its meaning; (g) Issuing in an authenticated form a document purporting to be a copy of an original document when no such original exists, or including in such a copy a statement contrary to, or different from, that of the genuine original; or (h) Intercalating any instrument or note relative to the issuance thereof in a protocol, registry, or official book and other acts falling under Articles 169, 171 and 172 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (5) Credit-card related crimes – crimes arising through the use of credit cards. (6) Other crimes that may cause loss to the bank – crimes committed that cannot be appropriately classified under any of the above classifications. (7) Negligence - the failure to exercise the care which an ordinarily prudent person would use under the circumstances in the discharge of the duty then resting upon him (People v. Aguilar, 2899-R, 18 October 1949). (8) Non-crime related loss – Incidents that may cause the bank to suffer a loss arising from fortuitous events. (9) Insider – person involved include stockholders, directors, officers and employees of the bank. (10)Outsider – persons involved other than an insider. (11) Perpetrator – a person, whether an insider or outsider, who is responsible for the commission of crime either by direct participation, inducement or cooperation, including accomplices and accessories as defined under Articles 18 and 19 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended.  12) Victim – an insider or outsider other than the perpetrator, who is the aggrieved party to the crime and may as a result of the incident, suffered the loss. (13) Attempted crime - a crime is attempted when the perpetrator commences the commission of the crime directly by overt acts but does not perform all of the acts of execution which constitute the crime by reason of some cause or act other than his own voluntary desistance under Article 6 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (14) Frustrated crime - a crime is classified as frustrated, when the perpetrator performs all the acts of execution which should produce the crime as a consequence but which, nevertheless, do not produce it by reason of causes independent of the will of the perpetrator under Article 6 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended. (15) Consummated crime – a crime is consummated when all the acts of execution which constitute the crime was performed. As a result, the bank may have suffered a loss, the recoverable portion of which should be deducted to arrive at the probable loss incurred by the bank. (16)Termination of the investigation -  an investigation is said to be terminated when all the material facts/information which are sufficient to support a conclusion relative to the matters involved have already been gathered and a finding/conclusion may be made based on the gathered information
Examination shall include, but need not be limited to, the verification, review, audit, investigation and inspection of the books and records, business affairs, administration and financial condition of any bank including the reproduction of banking records, as well as the taking possession of the books and records and keeping them under BSP’s custody after giving proper receipts therefor. It shall also include the interview of the directors and personnel of any bank including its Electronic Data Processing (EDP) servicer. Books and records shall include, but not limited to, data and information stored in magnetic tapes, discs, diskettes printouts, logbooks and manuals kept and maintained by the bank or by the EDP servicer, that are necessary and incidental to the use of EDP systems by the bank
Reports required of foreign subsidiaries/affiliates/banking offices or non-bank entities of domestic banks. The submission of periodic reports of a foreign subsidiary/affiliate/banking offices or nonbank entities of domestic banks shall be governed by the following rules: a. For foreign subsidiaries/affiliates f domestic banks, the local investorbank(s) concerned shall regularly submit to the appropriate department of the SES a quarterly statement of condition and quarterly/annual report of income and expenses concerning the operations of the foreign subsidiaries/affiliates, including such other periodic reports which may be required from time to time in the forms prescribed by the BSP for domestic financial intermediaries to the extent that their operations are applicable;  b. For foreign subsidiaries/affiliates of domestic banks, the appropriate department of the SES shall be furnished by said domestic banks copies of the annual report prescribed by any of the supervisory/regulatory authorities in the country of operations; c. When material changes noted in the annual financial statements warrant an interim comprehensive evaluation, the foreign affiliate concerned shall be requested to submit to the appropriate department of the SES, through its domestic investor-bank, copies of its quarter/interim reports to stockholders or the call reports in the case of U.S. banks; d. Audited financial statements (AFS) of the foreign banking offices and subsidiaries; and e. Examination reports done by the foreign bank supervisory authority. The submission of the documents in Items “d” and “e” to BSP shall not be later than thirty (30) banking days from date of submission/release of said reports to the foreign banking offices and subsidiaries of Philippine banks. Material findings, if any, contained in said reports should be highlighted. f. For purposes of this Subsection, affiliate shall refer to an entity linked directly or indirectly to a bank by means of: (1) Ownership, control or power to vote, of ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding voting stock of the entity, or vice-versa; (2) Interlocking directorship or officership, except in cases involving independent directors as defined under existing regulations; (3) Common stockholders owning ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding voting stock of each financial intermediary and the entity; (4) Management contract or any arrangement granting power to the bank to direct or cause the direction of management and policies of the entity, or vice-versa; and (5) Permanent proxy or voting trusts in favor of the bank constituting ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding voting stock of the entity, or vice-versa. For purposes of this Manual, the above definition of affiliate shall be adopted except where the provision of the regulation expressly states otherwise.
Accounting treatment for prudential reporting. For prudential reporting, banks shall adopt in all respect the PFRS and PAS except as follows: a. In preparing consolidated financial statements, only investments in financial allied subsidiaries except insurance subsidiaries shall be consolidated on a line-by-line basis; while insurance and non-financial allied subsidiaries shall be accounted for using the equity method. Financial/non-financial allied/non-allied associates shall be accounted for using the equity method in accordance with the provisions of PAS 28 “Investments in Associates”. b. For purposes of preparing separate financial statements, financial/non-financial allied/non-allied subsidiaries/associates,including insurance subsidiaries/associates, shall also be accounted for using the equity method; and c. Banks shall be required to meet the BSP recommended valuation reserves. Government grants extended in the form of loans bearing nil or low interest rates shall be measured upon initial recognition at its fair value (i.e., the present value of the future cash flows of the financial instrument discounted using the market interest rate). The difference between the fair value and the net proceeds of the loan shall be recorded under “Unearned Income-Others”, which shall be amortized over the term of the loan using the effective interest method. The provisions on government grants shall be applied retroactively to all outstanding government grants received. FIs that adopted an accounting treatment other than the foregoing shall consider the adjustment as a change in accounting policy, which shall be accounted for in accordance with PAS 8.
Report on real estate/chattel transactions. Banks shall within ten (10) banking days from approval of the transaction: a. Report to the appropriate department of the SES, any real estate/ chattel transaction (such as, but not limited to, rentals or leases, purchases and sales, of foreclosed assets) between the bank and its director(s), officer(s), employee(s), orbetween the bank and its stockholder(s) or their related interest(s), as defined under Items “c” and “e”, respectively, of Subsec. X326.1; and b. Certify to the BSP that such transaction has been thoroughly reviewed and verified as having been entered into in the best interest of the bank.
Report on the Sworn Statement on Real Estate/Chattel Transactions. The Report on the Sworn Statement on Real Estate/Chattel Transactions submitted under BSP Form Nos. NP06-KB, NP06-TB and RB/COB 20 need not be under the signature of all the members of the bank’s board of directors: Provided, That: (a) transactions reported are being availed of strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions of a fringe benefit program approved by the bank’s board of directors and by the BSP; and (b) the signatory to the certification is an officer duly authorized by the bank’s board of directors. Transactions not covered under the bank’s fringe benefit plan shall still be reported under the signatures of all the members of the bank’s board of directors.
Philippine Financial Reporting Standards/Philippine Accounting Standards Statement of policy. It is the policy of the BSP to promote fairness, transparency and accuracy in financial reporting. It is in this light that the BSP aims to adopt all Philippine Financial Reporting Standards (PFRS) and Philippine Accounting Standards (PAS) issued by the Accounting Standards Council (ASC) to the greatest extent possible. Banks shall adopt the PFRS and PAS which are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in recording transactions and in the preparation of financial statements and reports to BSP. However, in cases where there are differences between BSP regulations and PFRS/PAS as when more than one (1) option are allowed or certain maximum or minimum limits are prescribed by the PFRS/PAS, the option or limit prescribed by BSP regulations shall be adopted by banks.
Reports of strikes and lockouts. Banks through their president or chief executive officer shall immediately apprise the Deputy Governor of the SES of the BSP on the status of strikes/lockouts involving their banks, if unsettled after seven (7) calendar days. The bank shall disclose the following pertinent information on the strike/lockout: a. Cause of the strike/lockout and bank management’s position on its legality; and b. Bank operations affected.
Willful delay in the submission of reports shall refer to the failure of any bank to submit on time the report defined in Item “a(1)” above. Failure to submit a report on time due to fortuitous events, such as fire and other natural calamities, and public disorders including strike or lockout affecting a bank as defined in the labor Code, or of a national emergency affecting operations of banks, shall not be considered as willful delay.