Bad debts - shall include any debt on which interest is past due for a period of six (6) months, unless it is well secured and in process of collection. A loan payable in installments with an automatic acceleration clause shall be considered a bad debt within the contemplation of this Subsection where installments or amortizations have become past due for a period of six (6) months, unless the loan is well secured and in process of collection. For a loan payable in installment without an acceleration clause, only the installments or 
Out of the convertible preferred shares of stock which KBs/TBs may henceforth be authorized to issue, at least fifty percent (50%) of each such issue, shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the holders thereof after five (5) years from date of issue: Provided, however, That : a. The bank concerned may allow the conversion of such preferred stock into common stock even before the lapse of five (5) years from date of issue; b. At the time of the sale of the preferred stock, both classes thereof (one with convertibility feature and the other without convertibility feature) shall be  fered to the purchasers, with the purchasers having the option to acquire either or both classes of preferred stock; and c. Preferred shares of stock with a cumulative feature issued by banks shall automatically be convertible into common shares of stock at the option of the holders thereof whenever the right as may be acquired by the holders by virtue of such cumulative feature are not satisfied by the bank within a period of three (3) years from date of issue
The following guidelines shall be observed on equity investments of foreigners in domestic banks: a. The prior authority of the Monetary Board shall be obtained by foreign banks, including their subsidiaries and their holding companies having majority holdings in such foreign banks, whenever acquiring more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank, including foreign-owned shares outstanding and foreign-held as of 27 April 1973 and which continued to be held by the foreign stockholder up to the date of the acquisition by the foreign banks. b. (Deleted by Cir. No. 256 dated 15 August 2000) c. The prior authority of the Monetary Board is not required if the foreign investor is (1) an individual, (2) a nonfinancial entity, or (3) a non-bank financial entity which is not owned or controlled by a bank, its subsidiary or holding company, and the investor is acquiring foreign-owned shares in existing domestic banks: Provided, That said shares were outstanding and foreign-held as of 27 April 1973 and which continued to be foreign-held up to the date of acquisition by the foreign investor. d. The maximum stockholdings foreigners may own in domestic banks shall continue to be governed by existing provisions of law. e. Only foreign-owned shares directly funded by inward remittance of foreign exchange sold to the local banking system are qualified for registration with the BSP through its appropriate department for capital repatriation and remittance of profits/ dividends privileges, in accordance with existing BSP rules and regulations.
The articles of incorporation of RBs or the articles of cooperation of Coop Banks shall provide for: (a) common stock with the power to vote; (b) preferred stock to represent the counterpart capital of the LBP, DBP or any government-owned or controlled bank or financial institution, which shall be non-voting and preferred as to assets upon liquidation; and (c) preferred stock with such rights, voting powers, preferences and restrictions, as may be approved by the Monetary Board. Preferred and common stocks shall have a minimum par value of ten pesos (P10) per share: Provided, That this requirement shall not apply to existing RBs whose par value per share of stock is less than ten pesos (P10). An RB may not issue no-par value stock. For Coop Banks, preferred and common shares shall have a minimum par value of P1,000 per share for national Coop Banks; and P100 per share for local Coop Banks: Provided, That a Coop Bank may not issue no-par value shares. The LBP, the DBP, or any government owned or controlled bank or financial institution, on representation of the said private shareholders but subject to the investment guidelines, policies and procedures of the bank or financial institution and upon approval of the Monetary Board, shall subscribe to the capital stock of any RB/ Coop Bank, which shall be paid in full at the time of subscription in an amount equal to the fully paid subscribed and unimpaired capital of the private shareholders or such amount as the Monetary Board may prescribe as may be necessary to promote and expand rural economic development and/or cooperative movement.
In process of collection - A debt due to a bank shall be considered in process of collection when it is the subject of continuing extrajudicial or judicial proceedings aimed towards its full settlement or liquidation or otherwise to place it in current status. The extra judicial proceedings, such as the writing of collection or demand letters, must have been initiated by the bank and/ or its lawyers before the interest or installments or amortizations on the debt have become past due and unpaid for a period of six (6) months. The debt shall continue to be considered in process of collection for aperiod of six (6) months counted from date of the first collection or demand letter and if, within this period, the debtor fails to make a payment of at least twenty percent (20%) of the outstanding balance of the principal on his account, plus all interest which may have accrued thereon, the same shall automatically be classified as bad debts unless judicial proceedings are instituted. The debt shall continue to be considered in process of collection during the dpendency of the judicial proceedings. When judgment against the debtor has been obtained, the bank must be active in enforcing the judgment for the debt to continue to be considered in process of collection.
The stockholdings of an individual, family, corporate or business group in any bank shall be subject to the limits prescribed in Sections 11, 12, 13 and 14 of R.A. No. 8791. a. Foreign individuals and non-bank corporations may own or control up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That the aggregate foreign-owned voting stock owned by foreign individuals and non-bankcorporations in a domestic bank shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the outstanding voting stock of the bank. The percentage of foreign-owned voting stock in a bank shall be determined by the citizenship of the individual stockholders in that bank. b. A Filipino individual and a domestic non-bank corporation may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank. There shall be no ceiling on the aggregate ownership by such individuals and corporations in a domestic bank. c. A natural person and a corporation or corporations which are wholly-owned, or a majority of the voting stock of which is owned, by him may own only up to a combined forty-percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank. d. The right of Philippine corporations, however, under Section 8 of R.A. No, 7721, as implemented under Subsec. X121.12 shall continue to be in force and effect. e. Stockholdings of family groups or related interests. Individuals related to  each other within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, shall be considered family groups or related interests but may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That said relationship must be fully disclosed in all transactions by such corporations or related groups or persons with the bank. f. Two (2) or more corporations owned or controlled by the same family group of same group of persons shall be considered related interests but may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That said relationship must be fully disclosed  in all transactions by such corporations or related groups of persons with the bank. g. Ceiling on stockholdings in a Coop Bank. The equity investment of any cooperative in any Coop Bank shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the subscribed capital stock of such Coop Bank. h. Stockholdings in excess of ceilings. Unless otherwise allowed under existing laws, rules or regulations, any or all, as the case may be, of the above-mentioned stockholders owning more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a KB or a UB shall comply with said ceiling within thirty (30) days from 13 May 2002. i. Determination of foreign-owned voting stock and citizenship of corporate stockholders in a bank as well as the  relationship of stockholders of a bank. (1) The percentage of foreign-owned voting stocks in a bank shall be determined by the citizenship of all the stockholders in that bank. (2) The citizenship of the corporation, which is a stockholder of a bank shall follow the citizenship of the controlling stockholders of the corporation, irrespective of the place of incorporation. For purposes hereof, the term “controlling stockholders” shall refer to stockholders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the corporate stockholders of the bank. (3) The relationship of individuals who are stockholders of a bank shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles 963 to 966 of the Civil Code of the Philippines
Limits on stockholdings in several banks. Stockholders affiliated to each other through a common interest herein termed a business group or any corporation or association majority or all of the equity of which is owned by a business group may not control more than one (1) KB nor more than one (1) UB or both. Any natural person or a family group, who, together, with any corporation majority or all of the equity of which is owned by such person or family group, owns more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of any UB or KB may not acquire more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock in any other UB or KB, even if the shares of stock are being acquired from a natural person in a single transaction and the stockholding is in excess of forty percent (40%) of the bank’s voting stock. For purposes of determining applicability of the limitations provided in this Section, stockholders shall be deemed as affiliated to each other through common business interest or a business group in cases where the holdings of such stockholders altogether constitute a majority or control in one (1) or more enterprises.
Preferred shares. Private development banks may also issue ordinary preferred shares of stock to private persons, other than the preferred stock representing government counterpart capital contribution: Provided, That said preferred stock sold to private persons shall be governed by the pertinent BSP regulations for preferred stock issued to private investors. Preferred shares of stock of private development banks held by DBP/LBP and sold thereafter to private persons may, at the option of the purchasers, be retained with the same rights as when such shares of stock were held by DBP/LBP, or converted at not less than par to common shares or to ordinary preferred shares of the class issued to private shareholders.
Stockholdings in excess of ceilings. Unless otherwise allowed under existing laws, rules or regulations, any or all, as the case may be, of the above-mentioned stockholders owning more than forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a KB or a UB shall comply with said ceiling within thirty (30) days from 13 May 2002. i. Determination of foreign-owned voting stock and citizenship of corporate stockholders in a bank as well as the relationship of stockholders of a bank. (1) The percentage of foreign-owned voting stocks in a bank shall be determined by the citizenship of all the stockholders in that bank. (2) The citizenship of the corporation, which is a stockholder of a bank shall follow the citizenship of the controlling stockholders of the corporation, irrespective of the place of incorporation. For purposes hereof, the term “controlling stockholders” shall refer to stockholders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the corporate stockholders of the bank. (3) The relationship of individuals who are stockholders of a bank shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles 963 to 966 of the Civil Code of the Philippines (2) The sale or transfer of voting stock of banks to any individual or entity, if such sale or transfer, in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer shall result in the ownership by foreign persons and/ or foreign non-bank corporations in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock in a UB or a KB and sixty percent (60%) in case of a TB. (3) The sale or transfer of voting stocks of UB or KB to any corporation, if such sale or transfer, in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer shall result in the ownership by such corporation in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of the bank, unless allowed under R.A. No. 7721 and R.A. No. 8791. (4) The sale or transfer of voting shares of stocks of UBs or KBs or RBs1  to (a) any natural person; and (b) any corporation or corporations which are wholly-owned or a majority of the voting stock of which is owned by such natural person if such sale of transfer in itself, or in relation with another previous sale or transfer, shall result in the combined ownership by such natural person and such corporations in excess of forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of the bank, unless allowed under R.A. No. 7721 and R.A. No. 8791. (5) Any arrangement, such as voting trust agreement or proxy, which vests in any person or corporation the right to vote or control voting stocks in banks, if such agreement in itself, or in relation with another previous similar agreement or previous sale or transfer shall result in the acquisition of control, in excess of the prescribed limitations. b. Duties of a corporate secretary. In all transactions, which may lawfully come to the knowledge of the corporate secretary involving transfer of voting shares of stock or registration of voting trust agreements, or any form of agreement vesting the right to vote the voting shares of stock of the bank, the corporate secretary shall: (1) ascertain the identity and citizenship of the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, and for this purpose, he should require the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or the person vested with the right to vote to submit proof of citizenship, which may consist, in case of a corporation, of a certified true copy of the articles of incorporation, accompanied by the affidavit of the corporate secretary of the corporation, certifying to the correctness and accuracy of the list of stockholders and the percentage of shares owned by them; (2) require the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, at the time of the receipt of the request for transfer or registration, or at any time thereafter, to disclose all information with respect to persons related to the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote, within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, as well as corporations, partnerships or associations where the transferee, voting trustee, proxy or person vested with the right to vote has controlling interest, and the extent thereof; (3) require the transferee to execute an affidavit (sample format shown in Appendix 4) stating, among other things, that the transferee is a bona fide owner of shares of stock and that he acknowledges full awareness of the requirements of the law and the prohibitions against exceeding ownership of voting stocks beyond the prescribed limitations. If the request for transfer or the arrangement sought to be registered will patently cause the voting stocks of a person or a corporation, to exceed the limits prescribed by law, the corporate secretary  hall deny the transfer or registration and forthwith inform the parties to the transaction in writing. Simultaneous with the notice to the parties, the corporate secretary shall submit a written report to the Governor of the BSP of the attempted illegal transfer or arrangements, together with the names, addresses of parties and other pertinent data with respect to the particular stock transaction. In the event the corporate secretary has reason to doubt the legality of the transfer or of the arrangement sought to be registered, he may commence an action before the appropriate body; (4) promptly inform stockholders who have reached any of the ceilings imposed by law, of their ineligibility to own or control more than the applicable ceiling; and (5) disclose the ultimate beneficial owners of bank shares held in the name of Philippine Central Depository (PCD) Nominee Corporation in the quarterly report on Consolidated List of Stockholders and Their Stockholdings which report shall be made under oath by the authorized bank officers/signatories. Any violation of the provision of this Subsection shall be subject to a penalty of P30,000 per day until the correct report is submitted to the BSP. c. Transfers requiring prior Monetary Board approval (1) Prior approval of the Monetary Board shall be required on the following: (a) Any sale or transfer or series of sales or transfers which will result in ownership or control of more than twenty percent (20%) of the voting stock of a bank by any person whether natural or juridical or which will enable such person to elect, or be elected as, a director of such bank; and (b) Any sale or transfer or series of sales or transfers which will effect a change in the majority ownership or control of the voting stock of the bank from one (1) group of persons to another group: Provided, That in no case shall such sale or transfer be approved unless the bank concerned shall immediately comply with the prescribed minimum capital requirement for new banks, notwithstanding any approved capital build-up program. (2) For purposes of these regulations, the sale or transfer of voting stock shall refer to sales or transfers of voting stock which are allowed under existing laws or BSP rules and regulations and which have not been registered/recorded in the transfer book/ stock ledger or other records of banks. (3) Sanctions. Any violation of the provisions under Items “c(1)(a)” and “(b)” above shall be subject to the sanctions prescribed under Sections 36 and 37 of R.A. No. 7653, without prejudice to the appropriate legal actions for the rescission and invalidation of the sale or transfer. d. Requirement for newly established banks. Entities which may hereinafter apply for a license to engage in banking business shall, before being allowed to operate, submit - (1) An alphabetical list of stockholders with the number and percentage of voting stock owned by them; and (2) A separate list containing the names of persons who own voting stocks in banks and who are related to each other within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, with proper indication of the combined percentage of voting stocks held by them in the particular bank, as well as corporations which are wholly-owned or a majority of the stock of which is owned by any of such persons, including their subsidiaries.
Convertibility of preferred stock to common stock. Out of the convertible preferred shares of stock which KBs/TBs may henceforth be authorized to issue, at least fifty percent (50%) of each such issue, shall be convertible into common stock at the option of the holders thereof after five (5) years from date of issue: Provided, however, That : a. The bank concerned may allow the conversion of such preferred stock into common stock even before the lapse of five (5) years from date of issue; b. At the time of the sale of the preferred stock, both classes thereof (one with convertibility feature and the other without convertibility feature) shall be offered to the purchasers, with the purchasers having the option to acquire either or both classes of preferred stock; and c. Preferred shares of stock with a cumulative feature issued by banks shall automatically be convertible into common shares of stock at the option of the holders thereof whenever the right as may be acquired by the holders by virtue of such cumulative feature are not satisfied by the bank within a period of three (3) years from date of issue.
Limits on stockholdings in several rural banks. Any individual and/or his wholly or majority-owned corporation or non-bank corporations may own up to 100% of the voting stock in three (3) RBs: Provided, That the individual and/or its subsidiary/ies, may thereafter own shares in any number of other RBs only to such an extent as would not enable this group of investors to elect by virtue of its shareholdingsa director of each additional RB.
Limits of stockholdings in a single bank. The stockholdings of an individual, family, corporate or business group in any bank shall be subject to the limits prescribed in Sections 11, 12, 13 and 14 of R.A. No. 8791. a. Foreign individuals and non-bank corporations may own or control up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That the aggregate foreign-owned voting stock owned by foreign individuals and non-bank corporations in a domestic bank shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the outstanding voting stock of the bank. The percentage of foreign-owned voting stock in a bank shall be determined by the citizenship of the individual stockholders in that bank. b. A Filipino individual and a domestic non-bank corporation may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank. There shall be no ceiling on the aggregate ownership by such individuals and corporations in a domestic bank. c. A natural person and a corporation or corporations which are wholly-owned, or a majority of the voting stock of which is owned, by him may own only up to a combined forty-percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank. d. The right of Philippine corporations, however, under Section 8 of R.A. No, 7721, as implemented under Subsec. X121.12 shall continue to be in force and effect. e. Stockholdings of family groups or related interests. Individuals related to each other within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, whether legitimate, illegitimate or common-law, shall be considered family groups or related interests but may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That said relationship must be fully disclosed in all transactions by such corporations or related groups or persons with the bank. f. Two (2) or more corporations owned or controlled by the same family group of same group of persons shall be considered related interests but may each own up to forty percent (40%) of the voting stock of a domestic bank: Provided, That  said relationship must be fully disclosed in all transactions by such corporations or related groups of persons with the bank. g. Ceiling on stockholdings in a Coop Bank. The equity investment of any cooperative in any Coop Bank shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the  subscribed capital stock of such Coop Bank. h. Stockholdings in excess of ceilings. Unless otherwise allowed under existing laws, rules or regulations, any or all, as the case may be, of the above-mentioned stockholders owning more than forty  percent (40%) of the voting stock of a KB or a UB shall comply with said ceiling within thirty (30) days from 13 May 2002. i. Determination of foreign-owned voting stock and citizenship of corporate stockholders in a bank as well as the relationship of stockholders of a bank. (1) The percentage of foreign-owned voting stocks in a bank shall be determined by the citizenship of all the stockholders in that bank. (2) The citizenship of the corporation, which is a stockholder of a bank shall  follow the citizenship of the controlling stockholders of the corporation, irrespective of the place of incorporation. For purposes hereof, the term “controlling stockholders” shall refer to stockholders holding more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the corporate stockholders of the bank. (3) The relationship of individuals who are stockholders of a bank shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles 963 to 966 of the Civil Code of the Philippines.
Well secured - A debt shall be considered well secured (or fully secured), if it is covered by collateral in the form of a duly constituted mortgage, pledge, or lien on real or personal properties, including securities, having a loan value sufficient to discharge the debt in full, including accrued interest and other pertinent fees and expenses.