Banks' systems should be oriented towards providing better customer service and they should periodically study their systems and their impact on customer service. Banks should have a Board approved policy for general management of the branches which may include the following aspects:-

a.providing infrastructure facilities by branches by bestowing particular attention to providing adequate space, proper furniture, drinking water facilities, with specific emphasis on pensioners, senior citizens, disabled persons, etc.


b.providing entirely separate enquiry counters at their large / bigger  branches in addition to a regular reception counter.


c.displaying indicator boards at all the counters in English, Hindi as well as in the concerned regional language. Business posters at semi-urban and rural branches of banks should also be in the concerned regional languages.


d.posting roving officials to ensure employees' response to customers and for helping out customers in putting in their transactions.


e.providing customers with booklets consisting of all details of service and facilities available at the bank in Hindi, English and the concerned regional languages.


f.use of Hindi and regional languages in transacting business by banks with customers, including communications to customers.


g.reviewing and improving upon the existing security system in branches so as to instil confidence amongst the employees and the public.


h.wearing on person an identification badge displaying photo and name thereon by the employees.


i.Periodic change of desk and entrustment of elementary supervisory jobs.


j.Training of staff in line with customer service orientation. Training in Technical areas of banking to the staff at delivery points. Adopting innovative ways of training / delivery ranging from job cards to roving faculty to video conferencing.


k.visit by senior officials from Controlling Offices and Head Office to branches  at  periodical intervals for  on the spot study of the quality of service rendered by the branches.


l.rewarding the best branches from customer service point of view by annual awards/running shield.


m.Customer service audit, Customer surveys.


n. holding Customer relation programmes and periodical meetings to interact with different cross sections of customers for identifying action points to upgrade the customer service with customers.


o.clearly establishing a New Product and Services Approval Process which should require approval by the Board especially on issues which compromise the rights of the Common Person.


p.appointing Quality Assurance Officers who will ensure that the intent of policy is translated into the content and its eventual translation into proper procedures.

