Some banks insist on the signatures of both the depositors to allow repayment of money in fixed/term deposits, though the deposit account is opened with operating instructions (sometimes called ‘repayment instructions’), ‘Either or Survivor’ or ‘Former or Survivor’. Such insistence on the signatures of both the depositors has the effect of making the mandate given by the depositors redundant. This, in turn, results in unjustified delays and allegations of poor customer service.

1. It is clarified that if fixed/term deposit accounts are opened with operating instructions ‘Either or Survivor’, the signatures of both the depositors need not be obtained for payment of the amount of the deposits on maturity. However, the signatures of both the depositors may have to be obtained, in case the deposit is to be paid before maturity. If the operating instruction is ‘Either or Survivor’ and one of the depositors expires before the maturity, no pre-payment of the fixed/term deposit may be allowed without the concurrence of the legal heirs of the deceased joint holder. This, however, would not stand in the way of making payment to the survivor on maturity.

2. In case the mandate is ‘Former or Survivor’, the ‘Former’ alone can operate/withdraw the matured amount of the fixed/term deposit, when both the depositors are alive. However, the signature of both the depositors may have to be obtained, in case the deposit is to be paid before maturity. If the former expires before the maturity of the fixed/term deposit, the ‘Survivor’ can withdraw the deposit on maturity. Premature withdrawal would however require the consent of both the parties, when both of them are alive, and that of the surviving depositor and the legal heirs of the deceased in case of death of one of the depositors.

3. If the joint depositors prefer to allow premature withdrawals of fixed/term deposits also in accordance with the mandate of ‘Either or Survivor’ or ‘Former or Survivor’, as the case may be, it would be open to banks to do so, provided they have taken a specific joint mandate from the depositors for the said purpose. In other words, in case of term deposits with "Either or Survivor" or "Former or Survivor" mandate, banks are permitted to allow premature withdrawal of the deposit by the surviving joint depositor on the death of the other, only if, there is a joint mandate from the joint depositors to this effect.

4. It has come to our notice that many of the banks have neither incorporated such a clause in the account opening form nor have they taken adequate measures to make the customers aware of the facility of such mandate, thereby putting the "surviving" deposit account holder(s) to unnecessary inconvenience. Banks are, therefore, advised to invariably incorporate the aforesaid clause in the account opening form and also inform their existing as well as future term deposit holders about the availability of such an option.

5. The joint deposit holders may be permitted to give the mandate either at the time of placing fixed deposit or anytime subsequently during the term / tenure of the deposit. If such a mandate is obtained, banks can allow premature withdrawal of term / fixed deposits by the surviving depositor without seeking the concurrence of the legal heirs of the deceased joint deposit holder. It is also reiterated that such premature withdrawal would not attract any penal charge.

6. When a fixed deposit account is opened in the joint names of two depositors on ‘Either or Survivor’ basis and the said joint depositors already have a savings bank account in their names jointly on ‘Either or Survivor’ instructions, on maturity of the fixed deposit, proceeds of the matured fixed deposit can be credited to the joint savings bank account already opened in the bank. There is no need for opening a separate savings bank account in the name of the first depositor for crediting the proceeds of the fixed deposit.
