Banks are advised to offer a 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' which will offer following minimum common facilities to all their customers :

i. The 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' should be considered a normal banking service available to all.

ii. This account shall not have the requirement of any minimum balance.

iii. The services available in the account will include deposit and withdrawal of cash at bank branch as well as ATMs; receipt / credit of money through electronic payment channels or by means of deposit / collection of cheques drawn by Central / State Government agencies and departments.

iv. While there will be no limit on the number of deposits that can be made in a month, account holders will be allowed a maximum of four withdrawals in a month, including ATM withdrawals.

v. Facility of ATM card or ATM-cum-Debit Card.

vi. The above facilities will be provided without any charges. Further, no charge will be levied for non-operation / activation of in-operative 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account'.

vii. Banks would be free to evolve other requirements including pricing structure for additional value-added services beyond the stipulated basic minimum services on reasonable and transparent basis and applied in a non-discriminatory manner.

viii. The 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' would be subject to RBI instructions on Know Your Customer (KYC) / Anti-Money Laundering (AML) for opening of bank accounts issued from time to time. If such account is opened on the basis of simplified KYC norms, the account would additionally be treated as a 'Small Account' and would be subject to conditions stipulated for such accounts as indicated in paragraph 2.7 of Master Circular DBOD.AML.BC.No.11/14.01.001/2012-13 dated July 02, 2012 on 'KYC norms / AML standards / Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) / Obligation of banks under PMLA, 2002'.

ix. Holders of 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' will not be eligible for opening any other savings bank deposit account in that bank. If a customer has any other existing savings bank deposit account in that bank, he / she will be required to close it within 30 days from the date of opening a 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account'.

x. The existing basic banking 'no-frills' accounts should be converted to 'Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account' as per the instructions contained above.
