Banks should obtain and keep on record photographs of all depositors/account holders in respect of accounts opened by them subject to the following clarifications:

(i) The instructions cover all types of deposits including fixed, recurring, cumulative, etc.

(ii) They apply to all categories of depositors, whether resident or non-resident. Only banks, Local Authorities and Government Departments (excluding public sector undertakings or quasi-Government bodies) will be exempt from the requirement of photographs.

(iii) The banks may not insist on photographs in case of accounts of staff members only (Single/Joint).

(iv) The banks should obtain photographs of all persons authorised to operate the accounts viz., Savings Bank and Current Accounts without exception.

(v) The banks should also obtain photographs of the ' Pardanishin' women.

(vi) The banks may obtain two copies of photographs and obtaining photocopies of driving licence/passport containing photographs in place of photographs would not suffice.

(vii) The banks should not ordinarily insist on the presence of account holder for making cash withdrawals in case of 'self' or 'bearer' cheques unless the circumstances so warrant. The banks should pay 'self' or 'bearer' cheques taking usual precautions.

(viii) Photographs cannot be a substitute for specimen signatures.

(ix) Only one set of photographs need be obtained and separate photographs should not be obtained for each category of deposit. The applications for different types of deposit accounts should be properly referenced.

(x) Fresh photographs need not be obtained when an additional account is desired to be opened by the account holder.

(xi) In the case of operative accounts, viz. Savings Bank and Current accounts, photographs of persons authorised to operate them should be obtained. In case of other deposits, viz., Fixed, Recurring, Cumulative, etc., photographs of all depositors in whose names the deposit receipt stands may be obtained except in the case of deposits in the name of minors where guardians' photographs should be obtained.
