General Exclusions for SBI travel insurance policy:
The Company shall not be liable to pay under the Policy for the following:

1. No claim will be paid where the Insured person:

is travelling against the advice of a Physician: or
is receiving or on a waiting list for specified medical treatment declared in the Physician's report or certificate; or
is travelling for the purpose of obtaining treatment; or
has received a terminal prognosis for a medical condition.
2. No claim will be paid if arising from suicide, attempted suicide or wilfully self inflicted injury or illness, mental disorder, anxiety, stress or depression, venereal disease, alcoholism, drunkenness or the abuse of the drugs, or any loss arising directly or indirectly from any injury, illness, death, loss, expenses, or other liability attributable to HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) and/or any HIV related illness including AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) and/or any mutant derivative or variation thereof however caused.

3. No claim will be paid if arising from the Insured person taking part in Naval, Military or Airforce operations.

4. No claim will be paid if arising from War, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisation or requisition of or destruction of or damage to property by or under the order of any government or local authority.

5. The Insurance does not cover any claim arising from the loss or destruction or damage to any property whatsoever or any loss or expenses whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by or arising from

ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel; or
the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component thereof.
6. No claim will be paid which arises from the Insured person engaging in Air Travel unless he or she flies as a passenger on an aircraft properly licensed to carry passengers. For the purpose of this exclusion, Air Travel means being in or on, or boarding an aircraft for the purpose of flying therein or alighting therefrom following a flight.

7. No claim will be paid arising from the participation of the Insured person in winter sports, mountaineering (where ropes or guides are customarily used), riding or driving in races or rallies, caving or potholing, hunting or equestrian, skew diving or other underwater activity, rafting or canoeing involving white water rapids, yachting or boating outside coastal waters (2 miles). Further no claim will be paid in case Insured person participates in professional sports or any other hazardous sports, unless specifically covered as an extension of the Policy.

8. No claim will be paid for losses arising from accidents on two wheeled motorised vehicles unless at the time of the accident the driver is duly qualified, is in possession of a current full International driving license and the Insured person is wearing a safety crash helmet.

9. No claim will be paid for losses arising directly or indirectly from manual work or hazardous occupation, or if engaging in any criminal or illegal act.

10.Pre-existing Disease: The Policy is not designed to provide an indemnity in respect of medical services, the need for which arises out of a pre-existing disease.