What are the terms for extension in Policy Duration?
Following are the terms of extension:

With prior approval of the Insurer and on payment of extra premium:- Extension in Policy duration is only permissible in single trip insurance for a maximum 180 days subject to the condition that total Policy duration after extension shall not be more than 270 days. The premium for extension of Policy duration will be difference of full extended period premium minus premium received till date.
Automatic extension: - This extension is over and above extension of the Policy duration after prior approval for a period not exceeding 7 days if necessitated by delay of public transport services beyond the control of the Insured person. This automatic extension will be free of any charge.
If I sustain a loss on the last day of the Policy and continue treatment in India, will the Policy be automatically extended to cover the loss?
The Insurer shall also indemnify the medical expenses incurred by the Insured person in India for continuation of medical treatment commenced by the Insured Person outside India as a result of the injury/illness/disease manifesting for the first time during the course of the insured journey. This benefit shall be limited to a period of 90 days from and including the date upon which the aforesaid illness and/ or accident bodily occurred or first manifested itself, and to Medical Expenses at the usual and customary level.

Is pregnancy or disease/ complication arising out of pregnancy covered?
Treatment arising from or traceable to pregnancy childbirth, miscarriage, abortion or complications of any of these, including caesarian are excluded. However, this exclusion will not apply to abdominal operation for extra uterine pregnancy (Ectopic Pregnancy), which is proved by submission of Ultra Sonography Report and certification by a Gynaecologist that it is life threatening.

Is FIR required on occurrence of an accident?
FIR (First Information Report) is required in cases of:

Loss of passport
Claim under Home burglary insurance
Bail Bond
Accidental Claims under Personal accident section
Personal liability
Financial emergency
My entire family is travelling with me for 2 months. My house is going to be locked. In case there is a robbery/ theft or fire, will the policy reimburse us?
This Policy will indemnify the Insured Person for claims made in respect of loss of or damage to contents of the Insured Person’s home in India (located at the address mentioned in the Policy Schedule) caused by actual or attempted Burglary and/or Robbery during the Period of Insurance. The cover incepts from the date of departure of the Insured person from the country and ends on the expiry date or date of return to the country, whichever is earlier. The Insurer’s liability will be subject to maximum limit specified in the schedule. The cover excludes loss or damage to valuables.