To minimize/prevent ATM frauds and crimes, banks should, at a minimum, implement the following security measures with respect to their ATM facilities: 1. Locate ATM’s in highly visible areas; 2. Provide sufficient lighting at and around the ATMs; 3. Where ATM crimes (e.g., robbery, vandalism) are high in a specific area or location, banks should install surveillance camera or cameras which shall view and record all persons entering the facility. Such recordings shall be preserved by the banks for at least thirty (30) days; 4. Implement ATM programming enhancements like masking/non-printing of card numbers; 5. Educate customers by advising them regularly of risks associated with using the ATM and how to avoid these risks; 6. Conduct and document periodic security inspection at the ATM location, and make the pertinent information available to their clients; 7. Educate bank personnel to be responsive and sensitive to customer concerns and to communicate them immediately to the responsible bank officer; and 8. Post near the ATM facility a clearly visible sign which, at a minimum, provides the telephone numbers of the bank as well as other banks’ hotline numbers for other cardholders who are allowed to transact business in the ATM, and police hotlines for emergency cases.  Banks must study and assess ATM crimes to determine the primary problem areas. Procedures for reporting ATM crime should also be established. Knowing what crimes have occurred will aid the banks in recognizing the particular crime problem and to what degree it exists so that they can implement specific prevention measures to mitigate the risk. In this connection, banks are encouraged to share information involving ATM fraud cases to deter and prevent proliferation of the crime.
Technical Risk - I. Description of technology related risks Operational risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from problems with service or product delivery. This risk is a function of internal controls, information systems, employee integrity, and operating processes. Operational risk exists in all products and services. Technology can give rise to operational risk in many ways. Operational risk often results from deficiencies in system design, implementation, or ongoing maintenance of systems or equipment. For example, incompatible internal and external systems and incompatible equipment and software expose a bank to operational risk. Operational risk can increase when a bank hires outside contractors to design products, services, delivery channels, and processes that do not fit with the bank’s systems or customer demands. Similarly, when a bank uses vendors to perform core bank functions, such as loan underwriting and credit scoring, and does not have adequate controls in place to monitor the activities of those vendors, operational risk may increase. Also, when banks merge with other banks or acquire new businesses, the bank’s combined computer systems may produce inaccurate or incomplete information or otherwise fail to work properly. The failure to establish adequate security measures, contingency plans, testing, and auditing standards also increases operational risk. Strategic risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from adverse business decisions or improper implementation of those decisions. This risk is a function of the compatibility of an organization’s strategic goals, the business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed against these goals, and the quality of implementation. The resources needed to carry out business strategies are both tangible and intangible. They include communication channels, operating systems, delivery networks, and managerial capacities and capabilities. Use of technology can create strategic risk when management does not adequately plan for, manage, and monitor the performance of technology-related products, services, processes, and delivery channels. Strategic risk may arise if management fails to understand, support, or use technology that is essential for the bank to compete or if it depends on a technology that is not reliable. In seeking ways to control strategic risk, a bank should consider its overall business environment, including: the knowledge and skills of senior management and technical staff; its existing and planned resources; its ability to understand and support its technologies; the activities and plans of suppliers of technology and their ability to support the technology; and the anticipated life cycle of technology related products and services. Reputation risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from negative public opinion. This affects the institution’s ability to establish new relationships or services, or to continue servicing existing relationships. This risk can expose the institution to litigation, financial loss, or damage to its reputation. Reputation risk exposure is present throughout the organization and that is why banks have the responsibility to exercise an abundance of caution in dealing with its customers and community. This risk is present in activities such as asset management and regulatory compliance. Reputation risk arises whenever technology-based banking products, services, delivery channels, or processes may generate adverse public opinion such that it seriously affects a bank’s earnings or impairs capital. Examples may include: flawed security systems that significantly compromise customer privacy; inadequate contingency and business resumption plans that affect a bank’s ability to maintain or resume operations and to provide customer services following system failures; fraud that fundamentally undermines public trust; and large-scale litigation that exposes a bank to significant liability and results in severe damage to a bank’s reputation. Adverse public opinion may create a lasting, negative public image of overall bank operations and thus impair a bank’s ability to establish and maintain customer and business relationships. Compliance risk - This is the risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or nonconformance with laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards. Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities of the bank’s clients may be ambiguous or untested. Compliance risk exposes the institution to fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages, and the voiding of contracts. Compliance risk can lead to a diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, lessened expansion potential, and the lack of contract enforceability. Compliance risk may arise in many different ways. For example, it may arise when a bank fails to comply with applicable disclosure requirements or when it discloses information to outside party that it is required to keep confidential. Compliance risk also may arise when a bank does not have systems in place to ensure compliance with mandatory reporting statutes. The use of technology to automate lending decisions also could expose a bank to compliance risks if the programs are not properly tested or if the quality of the data is not verified. For example, the use of credit scoring models to automate lending decisions could expose a bank to compliance risk if the data upon which the program rely are flawed or if the program design itself is flawed. As banks move increasingly from paper to electronic-based transactions and information exchanges, they need to consider how laws designed for paperbased transactions apply to electronic-based transaction and information exchanges. Some new technologies raise unexpected compliance issues. Transactions conducted through the internet also can raise novel questions regarding jurisdictional authority over those transactions. Therefore, banks should be careful to monitor and respond to changes to relevant laws and regulations arising from these developments
Technical Risk Measurement and monitoring - As part of both planning and monitoring, banks must establish clearly defined measurement objectives and conduct periodic reviews to ensure that goals and standards established by bank management are met. Goals and standards should include an emphasis on data integrity, which is essential to any effective use of technology. Information should be complete and accurate both before and after it is processed. This is a particular concern in any significant merger with other institutions or acquisition of other businesses. Control of technology projects is complex because of the difficulty in measuring progress and determining actual costs. It is important that bank management establish benchmarks that are appropriate for particular applications. Ultimately, the success of technology depends on whether it delivers the intended results. Management should monitor and measure the performance of technology related products, services, delivery channels, and processes in order to avoid potential operational failures and to mitigate the damage that may arise if such failures occur. Bank management should establish controls that identify and manage risks so that the bank can adequately manage them. To ensure accountability, management should specify which managers are responsible for the business goals, objectives, and results of specific technology projects or systems and should establish controls, which are independent of the business unit, to ensure that risks are properly managed. Technology processes should be reviewed periodically for quality and compliance with control requirements. Auditing Auditors provide an important control mechanism for detecting deficiencies and managing risks in the implementation of technology. They should be qualified to assess the specific risks that arise from specific uses of technology. Bank management should provide auditors with adequate information regarding standards, policies, procedures, applications, and systems. Auditors should consult with bank management during the planning process to ensure that technology-related systems are audited thoroughly and in a cost-effective manner. Quality assurance Bank management should establish procedures to ensure that quality assurance efforts take place and that the results are incorporated into future planning in order to manage and limit excessive risk taking. These procedures may include, for example, internal performance measures, focus groups and customer surveys. Bank should conduct quality assurance reviews whenever it engages in a significant combination with another institution or acquires another business.
The technology risk management process is designed to help the bank to identify, measure, monitor, and control its risk exposure. The process involves three (3) essential elements, namely: 1. Planning 2. Implementing 3. Measuring and monitoring performance A. Planning Technology planning often involves strategic, business, and project planning; • Strategic plan establishes the overall role of technology as it relates to the bank’s mission and assesses the type of technology that a bank needs to fulfill that role; • Business plan integrates the new technology into existing lines of business and determines the level of technology best suited to meet the needs of particular business lines; • Project plan establishes resource needs, time lines, benchmarks, and other information necessary to convert the business plan into operation. The review and planning cycle may vary depending on the type of institution and its uses of different types of technologies. Proper planning minimizes the likelihood of computer hardware and software systems incompatibilities and failures, and maximizes the likelihood that a bank’s technology is flexible enough to adapt to future needs of the bank and its customers. Because technology is constantly changing, bank management should periodically assess its uses of technology as part of its overall business planning. Such an enterprise-wide and ongoing approach helps to ensure that all major technology projects are consistent with the bank’s overall strategic goals. Planning should consider issues such as: • Cost of designing, developing, testing and operating the systems whether internally or externally; • Ability to resume operations swiftly and with all data intact in the event of system failure or unauthorized intrusions; • Adequacy of internal controls, including controls for third party providers; and • Ability to determine when a specific risk exposure exceeds the ability of an institution to manage and control that risk. In cases when specialized expertise is needed to design, implement, and service new technologies, vendors may provide a valuable means to acquire expertise and resources that a bank cannot provide on its own. However, in planning on whether and how to contract for its technology needs, a bank should assess how it will manage the risks associated with these new relationships. Without adequate controls, the use of vendors to design or support new bank technologies and systems could increase a bank’s exposure to risk. While a bank can outsource many functions, management remains responsible for the performance and actions of its vendors while the vendors are performing work for the bank. To have an effective planning process for technology-related applications, bank’s planning process should at least have the following basic components: 1. Involvement of the board of directors and senior management The board of directors and a senior management committee play an important role in managing bank’s IT risks. Both should have knowledge of and involvement in the technology planning process. The board of directors and the senior management committee should review, approve, and monitor technology projects that may have a significant impact on the bank’s operations, earnings or capital. In addition, senior management is expected to have more involvement in and more knowledge about the day to day operations of these projects than the board of directors. At least one (1) key senior manager should have knowledge and skills to evaluate critically the design, operation and oversight of technology projects. The board should be fully informed by the senior management committee, on an ongoing basis, of the risks that technology projects may pose to the bank. Banks that use technology extensively, particularly large banks, should have sufficient expertise and knowledge among managers and staff to provide critical review and oversight of technology projects and to manage risks associated with them. Projects should be coordinated to ensure that they adhere to appropriate policies, standards, and risk management controls. In addition, senior managers with knowledge of the bank’s technology initiatives should report periodically to the board of directors on technology-related initiatives. 2. Gathering and analysis of relevant information Banks should consider existing systems, consumer expectations, and competitive forces in their planning for new or enhanced uses of technology. In the process of gathering and analyzing information, a bank should: a. Make an inventory of the existing systems and operations. A bank should review their existing systems to determine whether they satisfy current and projected bank needs. They should also evaluate how new technologies will fit into existing systems and whether additional changes to those systems will be necessary to accommodate the new technologies. b. Review industry standards. Bank management should assess current and developing industry standards in determining whether to implement specific technologies. Technical standards help to ensure that systems are compatible and interoperable. c. Determine when to deploy new technology. Timing is critical because there are risks in deploying new technologies too slowly or too rapidly. 3. Assessment and Review Bank management should carefully assess its technology needs and review its options within the context of overall planning. Management should consider whether the necessary resources, time, and project management expertise is available to successfully complete any new technology proposal. Prior to adopting new technologies, bank management should identify weaknesses or deficiencies in the bank’s ability to use them. Management should also consider whether staff can operate both new and existing systems simultaneously. These considerations will help management to choose the type and level of technology best suited to support its key business needs and objectives. Banks should be cautious in establishing project objectives and should ensure that the objectives are neither too ambiguous nor too ambitious. Management should control the bank’s risk exposure through practical planning. This planning may include dividing projects into manageable segments and establishing specific decision points as to whether a project should be modified or terminated. Planning should also establish contingency and exit plans in the event a new project does not proceed as planned. Management should assess and, where possible, attempt to quantify the costs and benefits of adopting new technology when reviewing its options. As part of this assessment, management should evaluate the risks, financial consequences, and likelihood that certain risks may occur. This review should also include assessment of the cost to start, run, and terminate a project.