Accounting treatment Obligations arising from the issuance of UnSD (including the portion exceeding the allowable ceiling for purposes of determining the qualifying capital as provided in Appendix 63a) shall be booked under the following General Ledger account titles: a. “Other Equity Instruments – Others” for HT1 capital which shall be presented in the equity accounts section of the Balance Sheet which shall be accounted for in accordance with the provisions of PAS 32; and b. “Unsecured Subordinated Debt” for UT2 and LT2 capital, which shall be presented in the liability accounts section of the balance sheet. However, only the proceeds actually received from the UnSD issues, (i.e., net of discounts, if any, and transaction costs) shall be considered as HT1, UT2 or LT2 capital. The proceeds actually received from the UnSD issues, (i.e., net of discounts, if any, and transaction costs) eligible as UT2 or LT2 capital shall be considered in the computation of loanable funds for purposes of determining compliance with the mandatory allocation of funds for agri-agra credit required under P.D. No. 717, as amended. A UnSD eligible as HT1, UT2 or LT2 capital shall be accounted for in accordance with PAS 32 and PAS 39 A UnSD denominated in foreign currency eligible as HT1, UT2 or LT2 may be recorded in the regular banking unit (RBU) or foreign currency deposit unit (FCDU/ EFCDU) of the issuing bank: Provided, That if booked in the FCDU/ EFCDU, the following conditions shall be strictly observed: a. The issuing bank shall indicate in its application that the UnSD shall be booked in its FCDU/EFCDU; b. The UnSD shall remain in the FCDU/ EFCDU books until full settlement; and c. The UnSD shall be issued only to non-residents and offshore banking units (OBUs) in accordance with Section 72.2.e of CB Circular No. 1389, as amended.
Qualified investors/buyers Qualified buyers of, or suitable investors in, a UnSD can be any of the following: a. Banks; b. Investment house (IH); c. Insurance company; d. Pension or retirement fund of other entities which have no subsidiary/affiliate or any other relationship with the Issuing Bank; e. Investment company; f. Funds managed by another bank or other entities duly authorized to engage in trust or other fiduciary business; g. Domestic corporate or institutional investors with total assets of at least P100.0 million; h. Foreign multilateral organizations such as, the ADB and IFC; i. High net-worth individual investor/ buyer who is sophisticated enough to understand and appreciate the significance of and the risk involved in UnSD as may be indicated by his/her educational background and/or employment/business experience; and j. Stockholder, director or officer with the rank of at least a vice-president of the Issuing Bank
Issuance overseas of UnSD. The overseas issuance of UnSD shall also be subject to the provisions of Sec. X119 except for the following: a. Overseas issuance of UnSD may be allowed to be governed by the laws and applicable rules and regulations of the country where the UnSD is to be issued with respect to form, qualified investors/ buyers and subsequent sale or  negotiation; b. The requirements under Subsecs. X119.1 c(1), X119.4 g(1), and X119.5 d(1) and d(6) may be allowed to be dispensed with in cases of overseas issuance of UnSD; and c. The subsequent sale/negotiation in the Philippines of the UnSDs originally issued overseas shall not be allowed unless all the requirements for domestic issuance are complied with. It is however understood that the applicant/issuer shall also secure the approval of the International Department (ID) of the BSP for the overseas issuance of foreign currency denominated UnSD.
Pre-qualification requirements of issuing bank. A bank applying for authority to issue a UnSD shall comply with the following requirements: a. It has complied with the minimum amount of capital required under Subsec. X106.1 or its paid-in capital is at least equal to the amount required therein. b. It has established a risk management system appropriate to its operations characterized by clear delineation of responsibility for risk management, adequate risk measurement systems, appropriately structured risk limits, effective internal controls and complete, timely and efficient risk reporting system. c. It is a locally incorporated bank
Prescribed ratio of Net due to and permanently assigned capital. The amount of Net due to which may be added to permanently assigned capital for purposes of determining compliance with capital ratios prescribed in laws/regulations shall not exceed the equivalent of four (4) times the amount of permanently assigned capital: Provided, That for the purpose of a foreign bank branch seeking to operate as a UB, the ratio shall not exceed three (3) times as provided in Item "d" of Subsec. X121.4. At least fifteen percent (15%) of the Net due to required to comply with the prescribed capital ratio shall be inwardly remitted and converted into Philippine currency: Provided, That amounts invested in productive enterprises or utilized by Philippine companies for export activities, including foreign currency denominated loans granted to Philippine exporters and loans for productive purposes such as the following: agriculture, fisheries and forestry; manufacturing; mining; public utilities; construction; and home building, need not be subject to conversion into Philippine currency. If there is non-compliance with the prescribed fifteen percent (15%) of Net due to required to be inwardly remitted and converted to pesos, the bank shall immediately inwardly remit and convert to Philippine currency the amount of the deficiency. Branches of foreign banks shall submit the reports prescribed in Appendix 6 to show compliance with the requirement that at least fifteen percent (15%) of its Net due to shall be inwardly remitted and converted into Philippine currency.
Private or negotiated issuance of UnSD a. Private or negotiated issuance of UnSD is the issuance of UnSD to qualified investors/buyers, whether individuals or institutions as defined under Subsec. X119.7. There is no limit on the number of qualified investors/buyers and on the sale or negotiation of the UnSD: Provided, That such sale or negotiation shall only be made to another qualified investor/buyer. b. Application for authority of the Issuing Bank (1) The application shall be signed by the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank. (2) The application for authority on each negotiated UnSD issue shall be filed with the appropriate department of the SES. (3) The application shall be accompanied by: (a) A certified true copy of the resolution of the Issuing Bank’s board of directors authorizing the private/negotiated issuance of UnSD indicating, among others, the amount, duration/maturity, interest rate, purpose or intended use of proceeds of the UnSD; (b) A Certification by the corporate secretary that the issuance of the UnSD has been approved by the stockholders owning or representing at least two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding capital stock of the Issuing Bank if the UnSD has convertibility feature; (c) A written confirmation from the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank stating that all the conditions for UnSD under Item “a(2)(a)” excluding Item “(xiii)” on underwriting provision or Item “b(1)(h)” excluding Item “(xi)” on underwriting provision or Item “b(2)(c)” excluding Item “(ix)” on underwriting provision of Appendix 63a are complied with and that such conditions shall be contained in the UnSD Certificates, Prospectus/Information Disclosure and Debt Agreement/Contract. (d) An undertaking from the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank that the UnSD shall be issued only to qualified investors/buyers; (e) A certification from the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank that the investor/buyer shall not be among those prohibited to hold UnSD under Subsec. X119.8 and that the Issuing Bank has applied appropriate standards to combat money laundering as required under existing BSP regulations; (f) A written undertaking from the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank not to support, directly nor indirectly, by extending loans, issuing payment guarantees or otherwise, the buyer/holder of the UnSD of the Issuing Bank; and (g) Specimen of the proposed Debt Agreement/Contract containing the terms and conditions of the UnSD issuance. hat all the conditions for UnSD under Item “a(2)(a)”, Item “b(1)(h)” or Item “b(2)(c)”, of Appendix 63a including the subordination (for HT1, UT2 and LT2) and loss absorption (for HT1 and UT2) features, have been met. c. Additional Requirements for the  Private Issuance of UnSD. Within ten (10) banking days after issuance of the UnSD, the Issuing Bank shall submit the following additional requirements to the appropriate department of the SES: (1) A written notice of the actual date of full receipt of proceeds, accompanied by a certification from the president or officer of equivalent rank of the Issuing Bank stating that the pre-qualification requirements under Subsec. X119.3 have been complied with up to the time of full receipt of proceeds; (2) A copy of each of the duly signed Debt Agreements/Contracts between the Issuing Bank and the investor/buyer as specified in the application for authority to issue negotiated UnSD; and (3) A copy of the income tax return of the investor/buyer in case of a natural person.  d. Debt agreement/contract The Debt Agreement/Contract shall contain all the terms and conditions on the issuance of UnSD and shall conspicuously state the following caveat: (1) This UnSD is not a deposit and is not insured by the PDIC. (2) This UnSD is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the Issuer or related party of the Issuer or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the priority of the claim of any holder of the UnSD as against depositors and other creditors (for LT2); depositors, other creditors and holders of LT2 capital instruments (for UT2); and depositors, other creditors and holders of LT2 and UT2 capital instruments (for HT1) (3) This UnSD does not have a priority claim, in respect of principal and coupon payments in the event of winding-up of the Issuing Bank, which is higher than or equal with that of depositors and other creditors (for LT2); depositors, other creditors and holders of LT2 capital instruments (for UT2); and depositors, other creditors, holders of LT2 and UT2 capital instruments (for HT1); (4) This UnSD is ineligible as collateral for a loan made by the Issuing Bank, its subsidiaries or affiliates. (5) This UnSD cannot be terminated by the holder nor by the Issuing Bank (for HT1). This UnSD cannot be terminated by the holder nor by the Issuing Bank before (maturity date) (for UT2 and LT2). Item “d(5)” above shall apply if the Issuing Bank commits no pre-termination of the UnSD. Otherwise, it shall read as follows: This UnSD cannot be terminated by the holder (for HT1). This UnSD cannot be terminated by the holder before (maturity date) (for UT2 and LT2). However, it may be pre-terminated at the instance of the Issuing Bank upon: (a) Prior approval of the BSP subject to the following conditions: (i) The repayment is in connection with call option after a minimum of five (5) years from issue date, or even within the first five (5) years from issue date when: (aa) The UnSD was issued for the purpose of a merger with or acquisition by the Issuing Bank and the merger or acquisition is aborted; (bb)There is a change in tax status of the UnSD due to changes in the tax laws and/or regulations; or (cc)The UnSD does not qualify as HT1, UT2 or LT2 capital, as the case may be, as determined by the BSP; and (ii) The debt is simultaneously replaced with the issues of new capital which is neither smaller in size nor of lower quality than the original issue, unless the Issuing Bank’s capital adequacy ratio remains more than adequate after redemption; and (b) Prior notice to investors/buyers. In case there is a feature allowing onetime step-up in the coupon rate in conjunction with a call option, the step-up shall be after a minimum of ten (10) years (for HT1 and UT2) and five (5) years (for LT2) after the issue date, and shall not result in an increase over the initial rate that is more than: (i) 100 basis points less the swap spread between the initial index basis and the stepped-up index basis; or (ii) Fifty percent (50%) of the initial credit spread less the swap spread between the initial index basis and the stepped-up index basis. The swap spread shall be fixed at the pricing date and reflect the differential in pricing on that date between the initial reference security or rate and the steppedup reference security or rate; (6) This UnSD may only be sold, transferred or negotiated to another qualified investor/buyer; (7) The holders/owners of this UnSD cannot set off any amount they owe to the Issuing Bank against this UnSD. (8) The payment of principal may be accelerated on this UnSD only in the event of insolvency of the Issuing Bank. (9) The coupon rate, or the formulation for calculating coupon payments shall be fixed at the time of the issuance of the UnSD and may not be linked to the credit standing of the Issuing Bank; (10)The payment of principal and coupon due on this UnSD shall not be made to the extent that such payment will cause the Issuing Bank to become insolvent (for HT1 and UT2); (11)The holders of the UnSD shall be treated as if they were holders of a specified class of share capital in any proceedings commenced for the windingup of the Issuing Bank (for HT1 and UT2); (Item “d(11)” above shall apply if such is the manner by which the UnSD is to be treated in loss situation. Otherwise it shall read as follows): This UnSD shall be automatically converted into common shares or perpetual and non-cumulative preferred shares (for HT1), or into common shares or perpetual and non-cumulative preferred shares or perpetual and cumulative preferred shares (for UT2) upon occurrence of certain trigger events as follows: (a) Breach of minimum capital ratio; (b) Commencement of proceedings for winding up of the Issuing Bank; or (c) Upon appointment of receiver for the Issuing Bank. The rate of conversion shall be fixed at the time of the subscription of this UnSD. (12)The amount and timing of coupons on this UnSD shall be discretionary on the Issuing Bank where the Issuing Bank has not paid or declared a dividend on its common shares in the preceding financial year, or determines that no dividend is to be paid on such shares in the current financial year; and the Issuing Bank shall have full control and access to waived payments (for HT1). The coupon payment on this UnSD shall be deferred where the Issuing Bank has not paid or declared a dividend on its common shares in the preceding financial year, or determines that no dividend is to be paid on such shares in the current financial year (for UT2); (13)The coupon on this UnSD shall be non-cumulative. In case there is a feature allowing withheld cash coupon to be payable in scrip or shares of stock, the shares of stock to be issued shall not be of lower quality capital than the UnSD (for HT1); and (14)The coupon to be paid on this UnSD shall be paid only to the extent that the Issuing Bank has profit distributable determined in accordance with existing BSP regulations (for HT1). N.B.: The last five (5) items (i.e., 10, 11 12, 13 and 14) are applicable only to UnSD qualifying under HT1 and UT2 capital, as the case may be. e. Pre-termination by the Issuer (1) The Issuing Bank may preterminate the negotiated UnSD subject to the following conditions: (a) The Debt Agreement/Contract shall include the information that the Issuing Bank has the option to preterminate the UnSD; (b) Compliance with Item “a(2)(a)vii”, Item “b(1)(h)v” or Item “b(2)(c)iv”, as may be applicable, of Appendix 63a; (c) Prior notification of thirty (30) banking days or more to lender/investor; and (d) Notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, the Issuer shall shoulder the tax due, if any, on the interest income already earned by the holders. (2) Within ten (10) banking days after  the completion of the pre-termination ransaction, the Issuing Bank must submit a written notice to the appropriate department of the SES of the following: (a) Actual pre-termination date; and (b) New capital composition. f. Functions/Responsibilities of the Issuing Bank (1) Prepares the Prospectus/ Information Disclosure on the UnSD issues; (2) Disseminates to prospective investors/buyers information on the terms and conditions of the UnSD (including information on no pre-termination at the initiative of the holder, and where applicable, the liquidity mechanism in secondary trading) and the rights and obligations of the holder and the issuer; (3) Keeps unissued UnSD certificates and maintains UnSD Register; (4) Records initial issuance of UnSD and subsequent transfer of ownership; (5) Issues UnSD Certificates and Registry Confirmation to original investors/buyers; (6) Issues Registry Confirmation to subsequent buyers/holders where applicable; (7) Ensures compliance with X119.8 and applies appropriate standards to combat money laundering as required under existing BSP regulations; and (8) Determines suitability of the investors/buyers (original or subsequent) and assures that he fully understands the risk involved in a UnSD
Prohibitions on holdings of UnSD. The following persons and entities are prohibited from purchasing/holding UnSD of the Issuing Bank: a. Subsidiaries and affiliates of the Issuing Bank including their subsidiaries and affiliates; and b. Common trust funds (CTFs) managed by the Trust Department of the Issuing Bank, its subsidiaries and affiliates or other related entities: Provided, That other funds being managed by the Trust Department of the Issuing Bank, its subsidiaries and affiliates or other related entities are allowed to purchase or invest in UnSD of the Issuing Bank subject to the following conditions:  (1) That the fund owners give prior authority/instruction to the Trust Department to purchase or invest in the UnSD of the Issuing Bank; and (2) That the authority/instruction of the fund owner and his understanding of the risk involved in purchasing or investing in UnSD are fully documented.  For purposes of this Section, an affiliate refers to a related entity linked by means of ownership of at least twenty percent (20%) to not more than fifty percent (50%) of its outstanding voting stock.
sanctions shall be imposed on the Issuing Bank, UnSD Registry and other parties involved in the transaction for failure to perform their respective functions/ responsibilities and for non-disclosure or misrepresentation of information, as follows: a. On the issuing bank (1) Suspension of its authority to issue remaining tranches, if any; (2) Disqualification from future issuance of UnSD; (3) Disqualification of all outstanding issues as eligible Tier 2 capital; and (4) Monetary penalty of P30,000 for each violation. b. On the underwriter/arranger (1) Disqualification from being underwriter/arranger for three (3) years; and (2) Monetary penalty of P30,000 for each violation. c. On the UnSD registry (1) Disqualification from being appointed as UnSD Registry for three (3) years; and (2) Monetary penalty of P30,000 for each violation. d. On the selling agent/market maker (1) Disqualification from being appointed as selling agent or market maker for three (3) years; and (2) Monetary penalty of P30,000 for each violation. e. On the public trustee (1) Disqualification from being appointed as public trustee for three (3) years; and (2) Monetary penalty of P30,000 for each violation. f. On the certifying officer - A fine of P5,000 per day from the time of required is closure up to the time disclosure was made, or from the time misrepresentation was made up to the time the information was corrected, and a possible disqualification if warranted by the gravity of the offense committed. g. On the responsible officer - A fine of P30,000 for participating in or tolerating the non-disclosure or misrepresentation of  information, and a possible disqualification if warranted by the gravity of the offense committed.