Watchlisting - shall be categorized as follows(1) Disqualification File “A” (Permanent) – Directors/officers/employees permanently disqualified by the Monetary Board from holding a director/officer position. (2) Disqualification File “B” (Temporary) – Directors/officers/employees temporarily disqualified by the Monetary Board from holding a director/officer position. b. Inclusion of directors/officers/ employees in the watchlist. Directors/ officers/employees disqualified under Subsec. X143.4 shall be included in the watchlist disqualification files “A” or “B”. c. Confidentiality. Watchlist files shall be for internal use only of the BSP and may not be accessed or queried upon by outside parties including banks, QBs and trust entities except with the authority of the person concerned and with the approval of the Deputy Governor, SES or the Governor of the Monetary Board. BSP will disclose information on its watchlist files only upon submission of a duly accomplished and notarized authorization from the concerned person and approval of such request by the Deputy Governor, SES or the Governor or the Monetary Board. The prescribed authorization form to be submitted to the concerned department of SES is in Appendix 76. Banks can gain access to information in the said watchlist for the sole purpose of screening their applicants for hiring and/or confirming their elected directors and appointed officers. Banks must obtain the said authorization on an individual basis. d. Delisting. All delistings shall be approved by the Monetary Board upon recommendation of the operating departments of SES except in cases of persons known to be dead where delisting shall be automatic upon proof of death and need not be elevated to the Monetary Board. Delisting may be approved by the Monetary Board in the following cases: (1) Watchlist – Disqualification File “B”  Temporary) – (a) After the lapse of the specific periodof disqualification; (b) When the conviction by the court for crimes involving dishonesty, breach of trust and/or violation of banking law becomes final and executory, in which case the director/officer/employee is relisted to Watchlist – Disqualification File “A”  Permanent); and (c) Upon favorable decision or clearance by the appropriate body, i.e., court, NBI, BSP, bank, QB, trust entity or such other agency/body where the concerned individual had derogatory record. Directors/officers/employees delisted from the Watchlist – Disqualification File “B” other than those upgraded to Watchlist – Disqualification File “A” shall be eligible for re-employment with any bank, QB or trust entity. 