Hours During Holidays - banking services during holidays. For purposes of servicing deposits and withdrawals, banks may, at their discretion, remain open beyond the minimum six (6) hours and for as long as they find it necessary, even before 8:00 AM or after 8:00 PM. Banks may, after prior written notice to the approriate department of the SES, also remain open beyond the minimum six (6) hours for banking services other than the servicing of deposits and withdrawals but in no case shall such banking hours start earlier than 8:00 AM nor extend beyond 8:00 PM: Provided, however, That branches of banks at any international airport or major fish port are allowed to operate on flexible banking hours within a twenty-four (24)-hour period, subject to the condition that the individual bank’s management will inform the BSP of the schedule of its banking hours which shall in no case be less than six (6) hours a day. Banks and/or their branch/es and/or extension offices may opt to remain open during any or all of their regular banking days that were covered by holidays for the purpose of servicing deposits and withdrawals: Provided, That a bank opting to open its head office and/or branch/es and/ or extension offices, shall submit to the appropriate department of the SES at least two (2) working days before the intended date of opening of the bank’s head office and/or branches and/or extension offices, a notice signed by its president or officer of equivalent rank, of its intention to open during the holidays, together with a copy of the board resolution approving the same: Provided further, That the notice shall specify which office (head office and/or branch/es and/or extension offices) will open on what dates and their schedule of banking hours. Subject to submission of a notice signed by the bank president or officer of equivalent rank, authorized agent banks of the BIR (BIR-AABs), and/or its branch/es and/or extension offices, are allowed to open for two (2) Saturdays prior to April 15 of every year, and daily from April 1 to income tax payment deadline, to extend banking hours from 3:00 PM to 5:00 PM to receive internal revenue tax payments. The notice, which shall specify which office (head office and/or branch/es and/or extension offices) will open or extend banking hours on what dates, shall be submitted to the appropriate department of the SES on or before the last banking day of March of every year
Report of, and changes in, banking days and hours. The banking days and hours selected for each of the offices of banks shall be reported in writing to the appropriate department of the SES. Banks may change the banking days and hours previously reported to the BSP by giving prior written notice: Provided, That changes in banking days or hours shall not be made oftener than once every thirty (30) days, except during emergencies. Emergency shall mean (a) condition of an area or locality proclaimed by the President of the Philippines as in a state of emergency; or (b) an event or occasion or a combination of circumstances equivalent to a public calamity resulting from fire, flood, or like disaster, or through some unusual occurrence or pressing necessity not reasonably subject to anticipation calling for immediate action or remedy. The prior written notice to the BSP on changes in banking days and hours shall be given through the fastest means of communication, at least seven (7) banking days before the intended effectivity of the change in banking hours or days. In case a bank, due to an emergency, has to open outside, or close during, the banking hours or days reported to the BSP, a written report submitted within twenty-four (24) hours from opening or closing, as the case may be, will suffice. The report shall state the specific nature of the emergency  and the period the bank opened or closed or shall open or close by reason of emergency.
Working Hours - Banks, including their branches and offices, doing business in the Philippines, shall observe for the conduct of their business a regular banking week of five (5) days, except when such days are holidays. The regular banking week should fall on Mondays to Fridays unless otherwise authorized by the BSP in the interest of the banking public. On these days, said institution shall transact business for at least six (6) hours each day. Subject to compliance with other relevant laws, banks, including their branches and offices, may opt to observe a banking week in excess of the five (5) days after reporting to the BSP the additional days during which such banks or their branches or offices shall transact business for at least three (3) hours each day. Without the need for prior approval of the BSP, and even in the absence of an approved local holiday, banks and/or their branches or other offices are allowed to close on certain days in celebration of important historical and/or religious events in the locality where these banks operate: Provided, That said closure has the prior approval of the bankers’ association in the locality and in the case of bank branches, their respective head offices: Provided, further, That said closure will only be allowed in the municipality or city where the festivities are centered. Banks and/or their branches or other offices shall submit, either individually or through their head offices, to the appropriate department of the SES a prior notice of their intended closure on account of a specific local festivity, together with a copy of the resolution of the local bankers association approving said closure, at least two (2) working days before the intended date of closure. The required notice shall be supported by a certification that: a. On the date of the temporary closure, the bank and/or branch will maintain a skeletal force to handle “out-oftown” clearing items in line with the provisions of Section X603; b. The notice of the bank’s closure and the reason thereof shall be posted conspicuously in the bank’s premises; and c. For branches of banks, the closure has the prior approval of their respective head offices.