To protect the funds of depositors and creditors, the Monetary Board may regulate/restrict the payment by the bank of compensation, allowances, fees, bonuses, stock options, profit sharing and fringe benefits to its directors and officers in exceptional cases and when the circumstances warrant, such as, but not limited to, the following: a. When the bank is under controllership, conservatorship or when it has outstanding emergency loans and advances and such other forms of credit accommodation from the BSP which are intended to provide it with liquidity in times of need; b. When the institution is found by the Monetary Board to be conducting business  in an unsafe or unsound manner; c. When it is found by the Monetary Board to be in an unsatisfactory financial condition such as, but not limited to, the following cases: (1) Its capital is impaired; (2) It has suffered continuous losses from operations for the past three (3) years; (3) Its composite CAMEL(S) rating in the latest examination is below “3”; and (4) It is under rehabilitation by the BSP/ PDIC which rehabilitation may include debt-to-equity conversion, etc. In the presence of any one (1) or more of the circumstances mentioned above, the Monetary Board may impose the following  restrictions in the compensation and otherenefits of directors and officers:  . In the case of profit sharing, the provision of Sec. X146 shall be observed except that for purposes of this Section, the total amount of unbooked valuation reserves and deferred charges shall be deducted from the net income. b. Except for the financial assistance to meet expenses for the medical, maternity, education and other emergency needs of the directors or officers or their immediate family, the other forms of financial assistance may be suspended. c. When the total compensation package including salaries, allowances, fees and bonuses of directors and officers are significantly excessive as compared with peer group averages, the Monetary Board may order their reduction to reasonable levels: Provided, That even if a bank is in financial trouble, it may nevertheless be allowed to grant relatively higher salary packages in order to attract competent officers and quality staff as part of its rehabilitation program. The foregoing provisions founded on Section 18 of R.A. No. 8791 shall be deemed part of the benefits and compensation programs of banks.
Bio-data of Directors and Officers a. Banks shall submit to the appropriate department of the SES a bio-data of their directors and officers after their election or appointment, in a prescribed form and within the deadline indicated in Appendix 6. The bio-data shall be updated in any of the following instances: (1) Change in educational attainment, experience or additional qualifications in banking that will enhance the director’s or officer’s competence or will qualify him to his present position; (2) Promotion; and (3) Transfer to other banks. The bio-data shall be submitted only once. For purposes of updating, only the pertinent sections and pages shall be submitted to the BSP. b. Banks shall submit to the appropriate department of the SES for evaluation, a list of the incumbent members of the board of directors and officers (chief executive officers down the line) after the annual election of the board of directors as provided in the bank’s by-laws. Any change in the composition of the board of directors shall also be reported to the BSP after the election or appointment of a member. c. If after evaluation, the Monetary Board shall find grounds for disqualification, the director/officer so elected/appointed may be removed from office even if he/she has assumed the position to which he/she was elected/appointed pursuant to Section 9-A of R.A. No. 337, as amended. In the case of the independent directors, the bio-data shall be accompanied by a certification under oath from the director concerned that he/she is an independent director as defined under Subsec. X141.1 that all the information thereby supplied are true and correct, and that he/she: (1) Is not or has not been an officer or employee of the bank, its subsidiaries or affiliates or related interests during the past three (3) years counted from the date of his election; (2) Is not a director or officer of the related companies of the institution’s majority stockholder; (3) Is not a majority stockholder of the institution, any of its related companies, or of its majority shareholders; (4) Is not a relative within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, legitimate or common-law of any director, officer or majority shareholder of the bank or any of its related companies; (5) Is not acting as a nominee or representative of any director or substantial  shareholder of the bank, any of its related companies or any of its substantial shareholders; (6) Is not retained as professional adviser, consultant, agent or counsel of the Part I - Page 70 Manual of Regulations for Banks §§ X144 - X145 07.12.31 institution, any of its related companies or any of its substantial shareholders, either in his personal capacity or through his firm; is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, has not engaged and does not engage in any transaction with the institution or with any of its related companies or with any of its substantial shareholders, whether by himself or with other persons or through a firm of which he is a partner or a company of which he is a director or substantial shareholder, other than transactions which are conducted at arms length and could not materially interfere with or influence the exercise of his judgment; and (7) Complies with all the qualifications required of an independent director and does not possess any of the disqualifications therefor; and has not withheld nor suppressed any information material to his or her qualification or disqualification as an independent director.
Disqualification procedures a. The board of directors and management of every institution shall be responsible for determining the existence of the ground for disqualification of the institution’s director/officer or employee and for reporting the same to the BSP. While the concerned institution may conduct its own investigation and impose appropriate sanction/s as are allowable, this shall be without prejudice to the authority of the Monetary Board to disqualify a director/officer/employee from being elected/appointed as director/officer in any FI under the supervision of the BSP. Grounds for disqualification made known to the institution, shall be reported to the appropriate department of the SES within seventy-two (72) hours from knowledge thereof. b. On the basis of knowledge and evidence on the existence of any of the grounds for disqualification mentioned in Subsecs. X143.1 and X143.2, the director or officer concerned shall be notified in writing either by personal service or through registered mail with registry return receipt card at his/her last known address by the appropriate department of the SES of the existence of the ground for his/her disqualification and shall be allowed to submit within fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of such notice an explanation on why he/she should not be disqualified and included in the watchlisted file, together with the evidence in support of his/ her position. The head of said department may allow an extension on meritorious ground. c. Upon receipt of the reply explanation of the director/officer concerned, the appropriate department of the SES shall proceed to evaluate the case. The director/officer concerned shall be afforded the opportunity to defend/clear himself/herself. d. If no reply has been received from the director/officer concerned upon the expiration of the period prescribed under Item “b” above, said failure to reply shall be deemed a waiver and the appropriate department of the SES shall proceed to evaluate the case based on available records/evidence. e. If the ground for disqualification is delinquency in the payment of obligation, the concerned director or officer shall be given a period of thirty (30) calendar days  within which to settle said obligation or,restore it to its current status or, to explain why he/she should not be disqualified and included in the watchlisted file, before the evaluation on his disqualification and watchlisting is elevated to the Monetary Board. f. For directors/officers of closed banks, the concerned department of the SES shall make appropriate recommendation to the Monetary Board clearing said directors/ officers when there is no pending case/ complaint or evidence against them. When there is evidence that a director/officer has committed irregularity, the appropriate department of the SES shall make recommendation to the Monetary Board that his/her case be referred to the Office of Special Investigation (OSI) for further investigation and that he/she be included in the masterlist of temporarily disqualified persons until the final resolution of his/her case. Directors/officers with pending cases/ complaints shall also be included in said masterlist of temporarily disqualified persons upon approval by the Monetary Board until the final resolution of their cases. If the director/officer is cleared from involvement in any irregularity, the appropriate department   f the SES shall recommend to the MonetaryBoard his/her delisting. On the other hand, if the director/officer concerned is found to be responsible for the closure of the institution, the concerned department of the SES shall recommend to the Monetary Board his/her delisting from the masterlist of temporarily disqualified persons and his/her inclusion in the masterlist of permanently disqualified persons. g. If the disqualification is based on dismissal from employment for cause, the appropriate department of the SES shall, as much as practicable, endeavor to establish the specific acts or omissions constituting the offense or the ultimate facts whichresulted in the dismissal to be able to determine if the disqualification of the director/officer concerned is warranted or not. The evaluation of the case shall be made for the purpose of determining if disqualification would be appropriate and not for the purpose of passing judgment on the findings and decision of the entityconcerned. The appropriate department of the SES may decide to recommend to the Monetary Board a penalty lower than disqualification (e.g., reprimand, suspension, etc.) if, in its judgment the act committed or omitted by the director/officer concerned does not warrant disqualification.h. All other cases of disqualification, whether permanent or temporary shall be elevated to the Monetary Board for approval and shall be subject to the procedures provided in Items “a”,”b”,”c” and “d” above. i. Upon approval by the Monetary Board, the concerned director/officer shall be informed by the appropriate department of the SES in writing either by personal service or through registered mail with registry return receipt card, at his/her last known address of his/her disqualification from being elected/appointed as director/officer in any FI under the supervision of BSP and/or of his/her inclusion in the masterlist of watchlisted persons so disqualified. j. The board of directors of theconcerned institution shall be immediately informed of cases of disqualification approved by the Monetary Board and shall be directed to act thereon not later than the following board meeting. Within seventy two (72) hours thereafter, the corporate secretary shall report to the Governor ofthe BSP through the appropriate department of the SES the action taken by the board on the director/officer involved. k. Persons who are elected or appointed as director or officer in any ofthe BSP-supervised institutions for the first time but are subject to any of the grounds for disqualification provided for under Subsecs. X143.1 and X143.2, shall be afforded the procedural due process prescribed above. l. Whenever a director/officer is cleared in the process mentioned under Item “c” above or, when the ground for disqualification ceases to exist, he/she would be eligible to become director or fficer of any bank, QB, trust entity or any institution under the supervision of the BSP only upon prior approval by the Monetary Board. It shall be the responsibility of the appropriate department of the SES to elevate o the Monetary Board the lifting of the disqualification of the concerned director/ officer and his/her delisting from the masterlist of watchlisted persons.
The Monetary Board may, at its discretion and based on the seriousness and materiality of the acts or omissions, impose any or all of the following sanctions provided under Section 37 of R.A. No. 7653 and Section 56 of R.A. No. 8791, whenever a bank conducts business in an unsafe and unsound manner: a. Issue an order requiring the bank to cease and desist from conducting business in an unsafe and unsound manner and may further order that immediate action be taken to correct the conditions resulting from such unsafe or unsound practice; b. Fines in amounts as may be determined by the Monetary Board to be appropriate, but in no case to exceed P30,000 a day on a per transaction basis taking into consideration the attendant circumstances, such as the gravity of the act or omission and the size of the bank, to be imposed on the bank, their directors and/or responsible officers; c. Suspension of interbank clearing privileges/immediate exclusion from clearing d. Suspension of rediscounting privileges or access to BSP credit facilities; e. Suspension of lending or foreign exchange operations or authority to accept new deposits or make new investments;  . Suspension of responsible directors  and/or officers; . Revocation of quasi-banking  license; and/orh. Receivership and liquidation under Section 30 of R.A. No. 7653. 49 Conducting Business in an
Unsafe/Unsound Manner. Whether a particular activity may be considered as conducting business in an unsafe or unsound manner, all relevant facts must be considered. An analysis of the impact thereof on the bank’s operations and financial conditions must be undertaken, including evaluation of capital position, asset condition, management, earnings posture and liquidity position. In determining whether a particular act or omission, which is not otherwise prohibited by any law, rule or regulation affecting banks, may be deemed as conducting business in an unsafe or unsound manner, the Monetary Board, upon report of the head of the supervising or examining department based on findings in an examination or a complaint, shall consider any of the following  circumstances: a. The act or omission has resulted or may result in material loss or damage, or abnormal risk or danger to the safety, stability, liquidity or solvency of the institution; b. The act or omission has resulted or may result in material loss or damage or abnormal risk to the institution’s depositors, creditors, investors, stockholders, or to the BSP, or to the public in general;c. The act or omission has caused any undue injury, or has given unwarranted benefits, advantage or preference to the bank or any party in the discharge by the director or officer of his duties and responsibilities through manifest partiality, evident bad faith or gross inexcusable negligence; or d. The act or omission involves entering into any contract or transaction manifestly and grossly disadvantageous to the bank, whether or not the director or officer profited or will profit thereby.